Narrator: Listen to part of a lecture in a literature class.
MALE PROFESSOR: Alright, so let me close today's class with some thoughts to keep in mind while you’re doing tonight's assignment. You'll be reading one of Ralph Waldo Emerson's best-known essays, Self-Reliance, and comparing it with his poems and other works. I think this essay has the potential to be quite meaningful for all of you—as young people who probably wonder about things like truth, and where your lives are going … all sorts of profound questions.
all sorts of

Knowing something about Emerson's philosophies will help you when you read Self-Reliance. And basically, one of the main beliefs that he had, was about truth. Not that it's something that we can be taught... Emerson says it's found within ourselves.So this truth... the idea that it's in each one of us... is one of the first points that you'll see Emerson making in this essay. It's a bit abstract, but he's very into, ah, into each person believing his or her own thought. Believing in yourself, the thought or conviction that's true for you.
philosophies
convict
to decide officially in a law court that someone is guilty of a crime
（在法庭上）宣判…有罪，证明…有罪
someone who is in prison because they are guilty of a crime
已决犯，既决犯;（服刑中的）囚犯
a little
a bit
But actually, he ties that in with a sort of universal truth, something that everyone knows but doesn't realize they know.Most of us aren't in touch with ourselves, in a way, so we just aren't capable of recognizing profound truths. It takes geniuses... people like, say, Shakespeare, who are unique because when they have a glimpse of this truth—this universal truth—they pay attention to it and express it, and don't just dismiss it like most people do.So, Emerson is really into each individual believing in, and trusting, him or herself.
tie in
a sort of, 
in touch with
glimpse
dismiss
be into
geniuses
very great and rare natural ability or skill, especially in a particular area such as science or art, or a person who has this
（尤指在某科学或艺术领域中的）天赋，天资;天才，天才人物

You'll see that he writes about... well, first, conformity. He criticizes the people of his time, for abandoning their own minds and their own wills for the sake of conformity and consistency. They try to fit in with the rest of the world, even though it's at odds with their beliefs and their identities. Therefore, it's best to be a nonconformist—to do your own thing, not worrying about what other people think. That's an important point—he really drives this argument home throughout the essay.
conform
to behave according to the usual standards of behaviour that are expected by a group or society
顺从;遵从;随大流，顺应习俗
behaviour that follows the usual standards that are expected by a group or society
（对社会规则的）遵从，遵守;从众
fit it with
to feel that you belong to a particular group and are accepted by that group
合得来；适应
essay
to try to do something
企图；尝试

drive home
When you're reading I want you to think about that, and why that kind of thought would be relevant to the readers of his time.  Remember, this is 1838. Self-reliance was a novel idea at the time, and United States citizens were less secure about themselves as individuals and as Americans.
novel
secure about
The country as a whole was trying to define itself.Emerson wanted to give people something to really think about. Help them find their own way and ah, what it meant to be who they were.So, that's something that I think is definitely as relevant today as it was then... probably, uh... especially among young adults like yourselves. You know, uh, college being a time to sort of really think about who you are and where you're going.
what it meant to be who they were

Now, we already said that Emerson really emphasized nonconformity, right? As a way to sort of not lose your own self and identity in the world? To have your own truth and not be afraid to listen to it? Well, he takes it a step further. Not conforming also means, ah, not conforming with yourself, or your past.
sort of
conform
conform to/with something
to obey a rule or reach the necessary stated standard, or to do things in a traditional way
遵守，遵照；符合，达到；依照
What does that mean? Well, if you've always been a certain way, or done a certain thing, but it's not working for you anymore, or you're not content—Emerson says that it'd be foolish to be consistent even with our own past. Focus on the future, he says: that's what matters more. Inconsistency is good!
He talks about a ship's voyage—and this is one of the most famous bits of the essay—how the best voyage is made up of zigzag lines. Up close, it seems a little all over the place, but from farther away the true path shows, and in the end it justifies all the turns along the way.So, don’t worry if you're not sure where you're headed or what your long term goals are—
voyage
a long journey, especially by ship
航海;航行
zigzag
up close
介词短语作状语，表示方式或角度，意思是“近距离看；在近处”
这是一个固定搭配的介词短语。Close 在这里是作名词使用（类似于一种省略了“distance”的用法，up close = at a close distance）。所以 close 是介词 up 的宾语at a close distance

from farther away
从更远的地方看
farther away。这里的 away 是副词，但 farther away 这个副词短语整体被当作一个抽象的“地点”概念，充当介词 from 的宾语。这是一种更抽象的用法，但其核心功能仍然是作为介词的宾语。

farther
justifies 
stay true to yourself and it'll make sense in the end. I mean, I can attest to that. Before I was a literature professor, I was an accountant. Before that, I was a newspaper reporter. My life has taken some pretty interesting turns, and here I am, very happy with my experiences and where they've brought me. If you rely on yourself and trust your own talents, your own interests, don't worry. Your path will make sense in the end.
attest

tie
to fasten together two ends of a piece of string or other long, thin material, or to (cause to) hold together with a long, thin piece of string, material, etc.
打结；系，缚，捆，扎
to relate to or connect to
与…相关
to finish at the same time or score the same number of points, etc. in a competition as someone or something else
（比赛中）打成平局，不分胜负
a long, thin piece of material that is worn under a shirt collar, especially by men, and tied in a knot at the front
领带
any piece of string, plastic, metal, etc. that is used to fasten or hold together something
（绑扎东西用的）带子，绳子
the friendly feelings that people have for other people, or special connections with places
纽带；关系，联系

When ideas or statements tie in, they agree or are closely connected, and if you tie them in, you make them agree or connect closely.
（使）相一致；（使）有联系
I can't tie in what he said today with what he told me last week.
他今天说的与上周他告诉我的根本就不是一回事。

a sort of
sort of
a kind of
kind of
all kinds of
all sorts of

in touch with
保持联系
keep in touch with
stay in close touch with

glimpse
to see something or someone for a very short time or only partly
看一看;瞥见

dismiss
to decide that something or someone is not important and not worth considering
对…不予理会，摒弃，（从头脑中）去除
to remove someone from their job, especially because they have done something wrong
（尤指因做错事）使免职，将…解职，解雇
to formally ask or order someone to leave
遣散;解散
When a judge dismisses a court case, he or she formally stops the trial, often because there is not enough proof that someone is guilty.
（常指法官因证据不足而）驳回，不受理

be into
“be into doing sth”由“be into”（对……感兴趣）和“动名词doing sth”（做某事）构成。其中，“be into”表示对某事物有强烈兴趣，后接动名词形式时，强调“喜欢并经常做某事”。例如：
​She’s into painting.​（她喜欢画画。）
​They’re into playing video games.​（他们热衷于打游戏。）

individual
a single person or thing, especially when compared to the group or set to which they belong
个人，个体
a person who thinks or behaves in their own original way
（思想或行为）与众不同的人，有个性的人
existing and considered separately from the other things or people in a group
个体的，个人的
given to or relating to a single, separate person or thing
单个的

stroke
(noun)a sudden change in the blood supply to a part of the brain, sometimes causing a loss of the ability to move particular parts of the body
中风
an act of hitting a ball when playing a sport
击球
(nuon)(a line or mark made by) a movement of a pen or pencil when writing or a brush when painting
（书写或绘画的）一笔，一画;笔画
an act of hitting someone with a weapon
（使用武器的）击，打
an act of moving your hand, another part of the body, or an object gently over something or someone, usually repeatedly and for pleasure
轻抚，抚摸
a quick, forceful action
果断之举；断然之举

secure
positioned or fixed firmly and correctly and therefore not likely to move, fall, or break
牢靠的；牢固的
likely to continue and not fail or be lost
可靠的;牢靠的;稳固的
(especially of objects, situations, etc.) able to avoid being harmed by any risk, danger, or threat
（尤指物品、境况等）安全的
not doubting or being worried about yourself and your personal relationships
无忧无虑的；安心的
to get something, sometimes with difficulty
获得;设法得到

conform
to behave according to the usual standards of behaviour that are expected by a group or society
顺从;遵从;随大流，顺应习俗

odd
strange or unexpected
奇怪的，古怪的；异常的；出人意料的
not happening often
不常发生的;不经常的
(of numbers) not able to be divided exactly by two
奇数的，单数的

vehicle
a machine, usually with wheels and an engine, used for transporting people or goods, especially on land
（陆上）交通工具；车辆；机动车
a way of achieving, producing, or expressing something
（实现、产生或表达…的）方法，手段，媒介
a show, film, exhibition, etc. that is used to show the special skills or qualities of one particular performer or artist
（为某个表演者或艺术家）特意制作的电影（或演出节目、展览等）

what it meant to be

novel
a long printed story about imaginary characters and events
（长篇）小说
new and original, not like anything seen before
新颖的，新奇的

up close
近距离观察

all over the places
到处都是

farther
comparative of far : to a greater distance
更远;较远（far的比较级）

further
程度上

voyage
a long journey, especially by ship
航海;航行


zigzag
a line or pattern that looks like a Z or a row of Zs joined together
锯齿形线条;之字形
a situation in which actions, plans, or ideas change suddenly and completely, and then change back again equally suddenly
（行动、计划或想法）突然变来变去
to make a movement or shape like a zigzag
呈之字形移动，曲折行进

justifies
to give or to be a good reason for
为…辩护;证明…正当（或有理、正确）;是…的正当理由

judge
a person who is in charge of a trial in a court and decides how a person who is guilty of a crime should be punished, or who makes decisions on legal matters
法官;审判员
the person who officially decides who is the winner of a competition
（比赛的）裁判员，评判员

bless
to ask for God's help and protection for someone or something, or to call or make someone or something holy
求上帝降福于;祝福;使神圣

prestigious
very much respected and admired, usually because of being important
有威望的，有声望的，受尊敬的

convict
to decide officially in a law court that someone is guilty of a crime
（在法庭上）宣判…有罪，证明…有罪

guilty
feeling guilt
内疚的，愧疚的，自责的
responsible for breaking a law
有过失的，犯了罪的，有罪责的


