Narrator: Listen to part of a lecture in a geology class.
MALE PROFESSOR: Now, we've got a few minutes before we leave for today. So I'll just touch on an interesting subject that I think makes an important point. We've been covering rocks, and different types of rocks, for the last several weeks, but next week we're going to do something a bit different. And to get started I thought I'd mention something that shows how, uhh, as a geologist, you need to know about more than just rocks and the structure of solid matter.Moving rocks. You may have heard about them.It's quite a mystery.
Death Valley is this desert plain...a dry lakebed in California, surrounded by mountains, and on the desert floor are these huge rocks... some of them hundreds of pounds... and they move! They leave long trails behind them—tracks you might say—as they move from one point to another. But nobody has been able to figure out how they're moving because no one has ever seen it happen.
plain, lakebed, floor, trails, track
Now there are a lot of theories, but all we know for sure is that people aren't moving the rocks. There're no footprints, no tire tracks, and no heavy machinery—like a bulldozer, umm nothing was ever brought in to move these heavy rocks.So what's going on?
tire, bulldozers, 
Theory number one: wind. Some researchers think powerful, um, windstorms might move the rocks. Most of the rocks move in the same direction as the dominant wind pattern, from southwest to northeast. But some, and this is interesting, move straight west, while some zigzag... or even move in large circles. Hmmm... how can that be? How 'bout wind combined with rain? The ground of this desert is made of clay. It's a desert, so it's dry. But when there is the occasional rain, the clay ground becomes extremely slippery. It's hard for anyone to stand on, walk on.
slippery,
Some scientists theorize that perhaps when the ground is slippery, the high winds can then move the rocks.There's a problem with this theory. One team of scientists flooded an area of the desert with water, then tried to establish how much wind force would be necessary to move the rocks. And get this, you need winds of at least 500 miles an hour to move just the smallest rocks, and winds that strong have never been recorded, ever,not on this planet. So I think it's safe to say that that issue's been settled.
settled. 
Here's another possibility. Ice. It's possible that rain on the desert floor could turn to thin sheets of ice when temperatures drop at night.So, if rocks uh become embedded in ice, uh, OK, could a piece of ice with rocks in it be pushed around by the wind? But there's a problem with this theory too. Rocks trapped in ice together would have moved together when the ice moved. But that doesn't always happen. The rocks seem to take separate routes.
sheet, embed, trap
There are a few other theories. Maybe the ground vibrates, or maybe the ground itself is shifting, tilting. Maybe the rocks are moved by a magnetic force. But sadly, all these ideas have been eliminated as possibilities. There's just no evidence.I bet you're saying to yourself, well, why don't scientists just set up video cameras to record what actually happens?
vibrates, tilting, eliminated
Thing is, this is a protected wilderness area, so by law, that type of research isn't allowed. Besides, in powerful windstorms, sensitive camera equipment would be destroyed. So why can't researchers just live there for a while until they observe the rocks moving? Same reason. So where are we now? Well, right now we still don't have any answers.
wilderness, windstorms, 
So all this leads back to my main point. You need to know about more than just rocks as geologists. The researchers studying moving rocks, well they combined their knowledge of rocks with knowledge of wind, ice, and such, uhh not successfully, not yet,
but y'know... they wouldn't even have been able to get started without, umm... earth science understanding. Knowledge about wind . . . storms . . . you know, meteorology. You need to understand physics. So for several weeks, like I said, we'll be addressing geology from a wider perspective.I guess that's all for today. See you next time.
meteorology

plain
not decorated in any way; with nothing added
朴素的；不加修饰的；简单的
obvious and clear to understand
清楚的，明显的
(used for emphasis) complete
（表示强调）完全的
a large area of flat land
平原
completely
完全地，简直

lakebed
湖床

floor
a level of a building
楼层
the flat surface of a room on which you walk
（房间的）地板，地面
a public space for activities such as dancing and having formal discussions
（活动的）场所
to hit someone and cause them to fall
击倒;打倒
to surprise or confuse someone so much that they are unable to think what to say or do next
使惊讶得不知所措


trails
a path through a countryside, mountain, or forest area, often made or used for a particular purpose
乡间（山间或林间等）小道
the smell or series of marks left by a person, animal, or thing as it moves along
臭迹;踪迹;痕迹
to (allow something to) move slowly along the ground or through the air or water, after someone or something
拖，拉

track
the pair of long metal bars fixed on the ground at an equal distance from each other, along which trains travel
（铁路的）轨道
a path or rough road that is made of soil rather than having a surface covered with stone or other material
小道，小径
a mark or line of marks left on the ground or on another surface by an animal, person, or vehicle that has moved over it, showing the direction they moved in
踪迹;足迹;车辙
to be examining marks or pieces of information that show where a person or animal has gone, in order to catch him, her, or it
追踪

trace
to find someone or something that was lost
找到，查出，发现
to find the origin of something
追查…的来源
to discover the causes or origins of something by examining the way in which it has developed
（根据事物的发展方式）查明…的起因（或源头），追溯
to describe the way in which something has developed
描绘…的发展方式
(noun)a sign that something has happened or existed
痕迹，踪迹
a very slight amount
微量，少许

tire
to begin to feel as if you have no energy and want to rest or go to sleep, or to make someone feel this way
（使）感到疲劳;（使）感到累
轮胎（tyre 的美式拼写）

bulldozers
a heavy vehicle with a large blade in front, used for pushing earth and stones away and for making areas of ground flat at the same time
推土机

slippery
If something is slippery, it is wet or smooth so that it slides easily or causes something to slide.
湿滑的，容易打滑的
Someone who is slippery cannot be trusted.
狡猾的，滑头的

flood
to cause to fill or become covered with water, especially in a way that causes problems
（使）充满水;（使）淹没
to fill or enter a place in large numbers or amounts
大量涌入；蜂拥而至；挤满；充斥
a large amount of water covering an area that is usually dry
洪水
a large amount or number of something
大批;大量

settle（verb）
to reach a decision or an agreement about something, or to end a disagreement
确定;决定;解决，结束（争端等）
to arrange something
安排
to relax into a comfortable position
（使）（舒舒服服地）坐下；安顿下来
to go and live somewhere, especially permanently
（尤指永久性地）定居，安家
to arrive, especially from another country, in a new place and start to live there and use the land
（尤指从别国）移居殖民地;殖民
to move to a lower level and stay there; to drop
降落;沉降   
to pay, especially money that you owe
支付（尤指欠款或被索款项）;偿付;结算
to become quiet and calm, or to make something or someone do this
（使）安静下来;（使）平静下来

settled（adj）
If you feel settled in a job, school, etc., you have become familiar with it and are comfortable and happy there.
（生活、工作、学习等）安定下来的
living somewhere, especially permanently
（尤指永久性地）定居，安家
Settled weather is calm and unlikely to change.
（天气）稳定的


sheet
a large piece of thin cloth used on a bed for sleeping on or under
床单
a large, thin, flat, usually rectangular piece of something
（尤指长方形的）大薄片
a piece of paper
一张纸

embed
to fix something firmly into a substance
把…牢牢嵌入（或插入、埋入）

trap
a device or hole for catching animals or people and preventing their escape
陷阱;夹子;捕捉器
a dangerous or unpleasant situation which you have got into and from which it is difficult or impossible to escape
圈套;诡计
to catch an animal in a trap
设陷阱（或夹子、捕捉器）捕捉
to keep something such as heat or water in one place, especially because it is useful
（尤指为利用而）收集，存住，保存（热量、水等）

meteorology
the scientific study of the processes that cause particular weather conditions
气象学

vibrates
to shake slightly and quickly, or to cause something to do this, in a way that is felt rather than seen or heard
（使）震动;（使）颤动;（使）抖动
a setting on an electronic device that causes it to vibrate when something happens, such as receiving a new message
（电子装置的设置）振动

tilting
to (cause to) move into a sloping position
（使）倾斜

eliminated
to remove or take away someone or something
排除;消除;清除
to murder someone
消灭;干掉

