An ecosystem is a geographic area where plants, animals and other organisms, as well as weather and landscape, work together to form a bubble of life. Ecosystems contain biotic (living) factors, as well as abiotic (nonliving) factors. Biotic factors include plants, animals and other organisms. Abiotic factors include rocks, temperature and humidity.
geographic
地理的
geography
地理
geoglogy
地质
lanscape
a large area of land, especially in relation to its appearance
乡间，野外;（尤指乡村的）风景，景色
a view or picture of the countryside, or the art of making such pictures
乡村风景;乡村风景画;乡村风景绘画
bubble
a ball of gas that appears in a liquid, or a ball formed of air surrounded by liquid that floats in the air
泡;气泡;泡沫
a temporary period of very successful economic performance in a particular country or sector, often followed by sudden failure
经济泡沫
a situation in which you only experience things that you expect or find easy to deal with, for example opinions you agree with, or people who are similar to you
舒适圈

biotic
involving, caused by, or relating to living things in the environment
生物的，生态的

abiotic
relating to things in the environment that are not living
与生物无关的；非生物的

Every part of an ecosystem depends on every other part, directly or indirectly. A change in the temperature of an ecosystem often affects what plants grow there, for instance. Animals that depend on plants for food and shelter have to adapt to the changes, move to another ecosystem or perish.
shelter
(a building designed to give) protection from bad weather, danger, or attack
掩蔽（处）;遮蔽（处）
(verb)to protect yourself, or another person or thing, from bad weather, danger, or attack
躲避；保护；遮蔽
to give someone a secret hiding place so that they will not be caught by the army, police, etc.
为…提供避难的地方
shelf

perish
to die, especially in an accident or by being killed, or to be destroyed
（尤指因事故或遇害）丧生，死亡;消亡;毁灭
If material such as rubber or leather perishes, it decays and starts to break into pieces.
（橡胶、皮革等）脆裂，老化


decay
to become gradually damaged, worse, or less; to cause something to do this
腐蚀;（使）衰败，（使）衰弱

Ecosystems can be very large or very small. Tide pools, the ponds left by the ocean as the tide goes out, are complete, tiny ecosystems. Tide pools contain seaweed, a kind of algae that uses photosynthesis to create food. Herbivores, such as abalone (Haliotis), eat the seaweed. Carnivores, such as sea stars, eat other animals in the tide pool, such as clams or mussels. Tide pools depend on the changing level of ocean water. Organisms in the tide pool must be able to survive submersion in seawater and potentially crushing ocean currents when the tide comes in. When the tide goes back out, the organisms must survive sun exposure and hotter temperatures. Plants and animals in the tidepool have adaptations that help them survive. For example, seaweed has a protective coating to keep it from drying out in the sun. In this way, the biotic parts of the ecosystem depend on abiotic factors.
algae
very simple, usually small plants that grow in or near water and do not have ordinary leaves or roots
水藻;藻类

herbivores
an animal that eats only plants
食草动物，草食动物

carnivore
an animal that eats meat
食肉动物

clams
soft body that can be eaten
蛤，蛤蜊

mussels
a small sea creature that has a black shell with two parts that close tightly together. Mussels can be eaten.
贻贝，淡菜，蚌

submersion
the act of being, or putting something, under the surface of a liquid so that the liquid completely covers it
（使）潜入水中，（使）没入水中;浸没

ocean currents
洋流

The whole surface of Earth is a series of connected ecosystems. Ecosystems are often connected in a larger biome. Biomes are large sections of land, sea or atmosphere. They are defined by climate, geography and the plants and animals that live there. The five main types of biomes are desert, aquatic, tundra, grassland and forest.
biome
a region of the earth's surface and the particular combination of climate (= general type of weather), plants, and animals that are found in it
生物圈

aquatic
living or growing in, happening in, or connected with water
水栖的;水生的;水上的;水中（进行）的

tundra
(part of) the very large area of land in North Asia, North America, and northern Europe where, because it is cold, trees do not grow and ground below the surface is permanently frozen
冻原带，苔原带

Within each biome, there are many different ecosystems. The desert biomes of the world, for instance, include a wide variety of ecosystems. The Sahara has a hot, arid climate and includes oasis ecosystems that have date palm trees (Phoenix dactylifera), fresh water and animals, such as crocodiles. The Sahara also has dune ecosystems, with winds constantly shifting the landscape. Organisms in these ecosystems, such as monitor lizards (Varanus) and fennec foxes (Vulpes zerda), must be able to survive on in sand dunes for long periods of time. The Sahara even includes abiotic factors carried by wind and fog from a marine environment. The Atlantic Ocean creates cool fogs on the Northwest African coast that make their way over the desert.
arid
very dry and without enough rain for plants
干燥的，干旱的

oasis
a place in a desert where there is water and therefore plants and trees and sometimes a village or town
（沙漠中的）绿洲

date palm trees
枣椰树
Phoenix dactylifera
海藻

crocodiles
a large reptile with a hard skin that lives in and near rivers and lakes in hot, wet parts of the world. It is like an alligator, but it usually has a longer and narrower nose
鳄鱼

dune
a hill of sand near a beach or in a desert
（海滩或沙漠的）沙丘

thoroughly
completely, very much
非常
in a detailed and careful way
仔细地

marine
related to the sea or sea transport
海（洋）的;航海的;海运的
a soldier who works closely with the navy and is trained especially for military operations on land that begin from the sea
海军陆战队士兵

In contrast, the Gobi Desert, which stretches across Mongolia and China, is a cold desert with freezing temperatures. Unlike the Sahara, the Gobi has ecosystems based not in sand, but in bare rock. Some grasses are able to grow in the cold, dry climate. As a result, these Gobi ecosystems have grazing animals, such as the goitered gazelle (Gazella subgutturosa) and even takhi (Equus ferus przewalskii), an endangered species of wild horse that had gone extinct in the wild before being reintroduced in the 20th century. Antarctica is also a cold desert biome. Its thick ice sheet allows only a few mosses – which are nutrient poor – to grow, so animal life, like penguin, whale and seal species, must rely on the ocean for food instead of the land.
graze
to break the surface of the skin by rubbing against something rough
擦伤，擦破（皮肤）
to (cause animals to) eat grass
放牛;放羊;放牧;吃草

grazing
land where farm animals feed on grass
牧场，草场

whale
a very large sea mammal that breathes air through a hole at the top of its head
鲸

moss
a very small, green or yellow plant that grows especially in wet earth or on rocks, walls, and tree trunks
苔藓

Threatened Ecosystems
Humans are a part of ecosystems too. Generally, Indigenous people have lived as part of their local ecosystems for generations without overusing their resources. For example, the Indigenous communities of North America’s Great Plains developed a complex lifestyle centered on the bison (Bison bison), a large grazing animal native to the ecosystem of the Great Plains. The cultural centering of these animals largely occurred after the introduction of horses and firearms by European colonizers. Bison were referred to as “buffalo” by both Indigenous and non-Indigenous people for many years, though their scientific name is bison. Many indigenous people of the Great Plains use the word “buffalo” for the animals in cultural contexts. These tribes used bison hides for their homes and clothing, bison meat for food and bison horn for tools. Bison were also a major part of the Indigenous peoples’ spiritual lives, where people honored the animal with ceremonies and prayers. The ecosystem supported tens of millions of bison in the early 1800s as well as tribes, including the Lakota, Blackfeet, Cheyenne and others who depended on the animal for survival.
indigenous
used to refer to plants and animals that grow or live naturally in a place, and have not been brought there from somewhere else
当地的;本土的，土生土长的
occurred

hide(fur)
the strong, thick skin of an animal, used for making leather
（用于制作皮革的）兽皮

horn
a hard, pointed, often curved part that grows from the top of the head of some animals, or the hard substance of which a horn is made
角;角质

However, in the mid-to-late 1800s, the U.S. government, knowing how central bison were to Indigenous life, implemented “scorched earth” policies that encouraged the military to kill as many bison as possible. This was genocide, an effort to destroy Indigenous culture and take over tribal land in the central and western parts of the present-day United States. By 1900, there were fewer than 1,000 wild bison. This not only harmed Indigenous livelihoods, but it also harmed the ecosystem. As a result of non-Indigenous people settling on the land, much of the Great Plains is now largely farmland and used for cattle. Iit is one of the most threatened ecosystems in the world. Today, Indigenous people are working to conserve the Northern Great Plains ecosystem, as they did in the past. For example, the Eastern Shoshone Tribe has introduced bison back to the ecosystem and are monitoring and caring for the growing herd, among other conservation efforts.
implemented
to start using a plan or system
实施，贯彻

genocide
the crime of intentionally destroying part or all of a national, ethnic, racial, or religious group, by killing people or by other methods
（尤指对整个民族、种族或宗教团体的）大屠杀，种族灭绝
suicide

present-day
existing now
现在的，当前的，当今的

livelihoods
(the way someone earns) the money people need to pay for food, a place to live, clothing, etc.
生活来源;饭碗，生计

among
in the middle of or surrounded by other things
在…中;为…所环绕
happening or being included as part of a group of people or things
在…（群体）中;…之一
to each one in a group of three or more people or things
在三者或以上数量的人或物之间

Tropical rainforest ecosystems surrounding the Amazon River in South America are also under threat. Tropical rainforests have distinct layers that are defined by the different levels of sunlight they receive, and each of these layers has unique plants and animals. Because of this, each layer of the rainforest can be considered its own smaller ecosystem within the larger rainforest ecosystem.

The top layer of the rainforest is called the emergent layer. This is where the tallest trees grow. This layer is exposed to high winds and harsh sun, but still supports animals like birds of prey, monkeys and insects.
harsh
unpleasant, unkind, cruel, or more severe than is necessary
令人不快的;严酷的;（无端地）严厉的

emergent
(of a plant) taller than surrounding plants, especially a tree that is taller than other trees in a forest
（尤指在森林中）高于周围其他树木的

The canopy is the next layer. This layer also has tall trees, but they are more densely packed together than in the emergent layer. Forest canopies also include other plants, called epiphytes, which grow directly on branches. Examples of epiphytes are mosses, ferns and orchids. Canopies are also home to the majority of rainforest animals, including keel-billed toucans (Ramphastos sulfuratus) and howler monkeys (Alouatta). Below the canopy is the next layer, the understory. The understory is darker, so it supports plants that thrive in the shade. It also supports many insects and some larger animals like snakes. The forest floor layer is even darker. It is filled with decomposing matter like leaves and branches from higher layers, making it easy for animals who do not climb trees to find food. Giant anteaters (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) and other creatures that help break down matter and aerate the soil make their homes there.
dense
densely packaed together
epiphytes
thrive
to grow, develop, or be successful
茁壮成长；兴旺，繁荣

shade
slight darkness caused by something blocking the direct light from the sun
阴处;阴凉处
a covering that is put over an electric light in order to make it less bright
灯罩
the parts of a picture or painting that the artist has made slightly darker than the other parts
（画作中的）阴影部分，暗部

decomposing
to decay, or to cause something to decay
（使）腐化，（使）腐烂

climb
o go up, or to go towards the top of something
上升;攀升;爬升
If a price, number, or amount climbs, it increases.
（价格、数量等）上涨，增长，攀升
to move into a higher social position, or to improve your position at work
提高社会地位，向上爬；晋升

anteaters
a mammal that eats ants or termites and has a long nose and tongue and no teeth
食蚁兽

break down
If a machine or vehicle breaks down, it stops working.
（机器或车辆）出故障
If a system, relationship, or discussion breaks down, it fails because there is a problem or disagreement.
（系统或关系）崩溃，瓦解;（讨论）失败
to be unable to control your feelings and to start to cry
（情绪）崩溃;忍不住哭了起来

aerate
to add a gas to liquid, especially a drink
（尤指向饮料中）充入气体;使气体注于（液体）
to allow air to act on something
使暴露于空气中;使透气


Indigenous people of the Amazon rainforest live off the land in ways that allow the ecosystem thrive. For example, the Yanomami people that live in the rainforests of Venezuela and Brazil do not live in permanent settlements that might degrade the land. Instead, they farm and hunt in an area until the resources are depleted but not completely used up. They then migrate to another area. This allows the rainforest to replenish itself.
live off
to use someone or something to provide the money or food that you need to live
依靠…生活
in ways that
通过某种方式

permanent
lasting for a long time or for ever
长久的;永久的，永恒的

settlements
an official agreement that finishes an argument
（结束争端的）协议
an arrangement to end a disagreement involving a law having been broken, without taking it to a law court, or an amount of money paid as part of such an arrangement
庭外和解;庭外和解费
a place where people come to live or the process of settling in such a place
定居;定居地

degrade
to cause people to feel that they or other people have no value and do not have the respect or good opinion of others
贬低;降低…的身份;侮辱…的人格
to spoil or destroy the beauty or quality of something
玷污；损害，危害
(of a substance) to change into a more simple chemical structure
降解，自然分解

depleted
reduced
消耗的；耗费的；减少的


replenish
to fill something up again
补充；把…再备足；重新装满

However, the rainforest is being destroyed and degraded by people not indigenous to the forest for purposes like farming and mining. International demand—from countries like China and the United State—for beef, rainforest wood and other products has incentivized local farmers and sometimes even South American governments to continue or ignore deforestation. The opportunity to escape poverty incentivizes local people to mine or farm. This is because many countries with rainforests were formerly colonized by Europeans who built economies based on resource extraction. This often left locals impoverished, because colonizing nations depleted the land, did not share extracted resources and did not develop other industries in the colonies. Now, for citizens of formerly colonized nations, it is a challenge to balance the needs of protecting the ecosystem with economic needs and survival.
incentivized
to make someone want to do something
刺激，激励

deforestation
(noun)the cutting down of trees in a large area, or the destruction of forests by people
大面积砍伐森林;人为毁林

impoverished
very poor
赤贫的
made weaker or worse in quality
（质量）恶化的

depleted
reduced
消耗的；耗费的；减少的

Still, the destruction of the rainforest comes at a very high cost for the ecosystem. Deforestation degrades the soil and creates and spreads deserts. By cutting down trees, deforestation also contributes to greater greenhouse gasses in the air, which warm the atmosphere and contribute to climate change. Animal populations have shrunk, and some species have disappeared altogether. This disrupts the cycle of life in the smaller ecosystems within the rainforest, which can then affect ecosystems in other parts of the rainforest.
destruction
the act of destroying something, or the fact of being destroyed
毁灭，消灭，破坏

greenhouse gasses
温室气体（尤指二氧化碳）

shrink -> shrunk
to become smaller, or to make something smaller
（使）缩小，（使）变小
drink

disrupt
to prevent something, especially a system, process, or event, from continuing as usual or as expected
打断，中断，扰乱
to change the traditional way that an industry operates, especially in a new and effective way
改变行业传统运作方式，颠覆

disturb
to interrupt what someone is doing
打断;干扰
to cause someone to be worried or upset
使焦虑，使烦恼

disturbance
something that interrupts someone or makes someone feel worried
干扰，滋扰

Deforestation comes at a cost for Indigenous communities too. Indigenous people not only lose their land, they may also lose parts of their culture and knowledge. For example, the Yanomami of the Amazon have a strong history and culture of traditional medicine. Many modern medicines have been developed from rainforest plants, so the Yanomami’s knowledge and stewardship of the forest help their people and may allow for new innovation. They live communally and share goods that they produce themselves—all traditions that would be lost without the rainforest ecosystem. Importantly, the rainforest is also culturally significant to the Yanomami. But rainforest loss goes beyond threatening culture for the Yanomami. They are also at risk of dying out completely. The Yanomami have had little contact with other humans, making them more susceptible to disease. Increased contact with miners from outside of their community has resulted in an increased mortality rate among the Yanomami population.
stewardship
Someone's stewardship of something is the way in which that person controls or organizes it
管理方法；组织方式

communally
together with other people rather than on your own
以集体方式地;以公用方式地

susceptible
easily influenced or harmed by something
易受影响的，易受伤害的

dying out
to become less common and finally stop existing
逐渐消失;灭绝

mortality
the number of deaths within a particular society and within a particular period of time
死亡数量，死亡率
the way that people do not live for ever
必死性，生命的有限

morality
道德体系
moral
道德

Restoring Ecosystems
Some ecosystems can be restored after damage or destruction, but it may take considerable effort and many years for an ecosystem to fully recover. In 2022, the United Nations (UN) declared a Decade on Ecosystem Restoration to push national, regional, and local governments and groups to work to restore their local ecosystems.
considerable

One way to restore ecosystems is to remove the causes of destruction and allow the ecosystem to recover on its own. This typically means cutting down on human involvement and action in the ecosystem. One example of a conservation program that works this way is the Cocos Island National Park, a World Heritage site in Costa Rica. This park is an island that preserves the unique ecosystem of plant and animal life by not allowing human habitation. Because modern fishing boats were depleting marine life in the surrounding waters, the protection of the island was extended to include areas of the ocean as well.
Heritage
cutting down


Another way to restore ecosystems is for humans to take more action by purposely changing the ecosystem in a way that would restore it. For example, in the early 1900s, U.S. government programs exterminated wolves (Canis lupus) from Yellowstone National Park, because they were seen as a threat to livestock and big game. However, scientists noticed that removing the wolves threw off the food web in the ecosystem. The elk population ballooned and elk overgrazed. This degraded the vegetation and land. To correct this, a government program reintroduced wolves back into Yellowstone National Park in 1995. Decades later, researchers have noticed positive changes to the ecosystem, such as a growing beaver population. Beavers were able to rebound as the wolf pack grew, because beavers and elk eat the same plants, and the wolves hunted the elk in the park.
exterminated
to kill all the animals or people in a particular place or of a particular type
根除;灭绝;消灭

livestock
animals and birds that are kept on a farm, such as cows, sheep, or chickens
牲畜;家畜;家禽

reintroduced
to put something into use, operation, or a place after it has not been used or in a place for some time
再介绍，再引荐;再引进;重新采用

distract
to make someone stop giving their attention to something
使分心，使转移注意力，干扰
attrack

threw off
If you throw off your clothes, you take them off quickly and carelessly.
匆匆脱下（衣服）
to escape from something or someone following you
摆脱，甩掉

food web

ballooned
a small, thin rubber bag that you blow air into or fill with a light gas until it is round in shape, used for decoration, as a children's toy, or for other purposes such as medical treatment or scientific research
气球

overgrazed
to eat too much grass in an area or to have too many animals eating grass in an area, which damages the environment
过度放牧，过度啃食（植被）

beaver
an animal with smooth fur, sharp teeth, and a large, flat tail. Beavers build dams (= walls of sticks and earth) across rivers.
海狸，河狸

People are also attempting to restore coral reefs that have died as a result of rising sea temperatures caused by climate change. Scientists are trying to grow corals that are more temperature resistant to restore some of the damaged reefs. However, without larger efforts to stop climate change, it is unclear how effective these measures will be.
coral reefs

Individual people, cultures and governments are working to preserve ecosystems that are important to them. The government of Ecuador, for instance, recognizes ecosystem rights in the country’s constitution. The so-called Rights of Nature says that nature or Pachamama (Earth), where life is reproduced and exists, has the right to exist, persist, maintain and regenerate its vital cycles, structure, functions and its processes in evolution. Ecuador is home not only to rainforest ecosystems but also mountain ecosystems and the unique ecosystems on the Galapagos Islands.
constitution
the set of political principles by which a state or organization is governed, especially in relation to the rights of the people it governs
宪法;章程
the general state of someone's health
体质，体格
how something is made up of different parts
组成;构成;结构;构造

persist
If an unpleasant feeling or situation persists, it continues to exist.
持续;存留
to try to do or continue doing something in a determined but often unreasonable way
坚持不懈;执意

vital
necessary for the success or continued existence of something; extremely important
必不可少的；极其重要的
energetic
生机勃勃的;充满生气的

cycle
a bicycle
自行车，脚踏车
a group of events that happen in a particular order, one following the other, and are often repeated
循环；周期
one in a series of movements that a machine performs
（机器的）工作周期，工作程序
to ride a bicycle
骑自行车

vital cycle
生命周期


There are many ways global citizens can help ecosystems thrive. The first step is to learn about different ecosystems, both locally and internationally, to determine the best way to help threatened ecosystems. People can support local conservation groups and follow recommendations about how to interact with local wildlife. On a global level, people can be mindful about the source of products they buy and choose to buy more sustainably and support international organizations that protect ecosystems. Additionally, people can consider political action on a local, regional or international level and pressure government officials to improve and preserve the environment.
wildlife


