Narrator

Listen to part of a lecture in an Astronomy Class

Professor:

Last week, we covered some arguments against going back to the Moon. But there are compelling reasons in favor of another Moon landing too, um… not the least of which is trying to pinpoint the moon’s age.
cover
not the least of
最重要的
pinpoint
to find out or say the exact position in space or time of something
准确指出，确定（位置或时间）


We could do this in theory by studying an enormous impact crater, known as the South Pole-Aitken Basin. Um…it’s located in the moon’s South Polar Region. But, since it’s on the far side of the moon, it can only be seen from space.
theory
are suggested to explain a fact or event or, more generally, an opinion or explanation
理论;学说;意见
crater
Polar

Here is an image of…we’ll call it the SPA Basin. This color-coated image of the SPA Basin, those aren’t its actual colors obviously, this image is from the mid 90s, from the American spacecraft called Clementine. Um… unlike earlier lunar missions, Clementine didn’t orbit only around the moon’s equator. Its orbits enabled it to send back data to create this topographical map of … well, the grey and white area towards the bottom is the South Pole, the purples and blues in the middle correspond to low elevations - the SPA Basin itself, the oranges and reds around it are higher elevations.
lunar
of or relating to the moon
月亮的，月球的

missions
an important job, especially a military one, that someone is sent somewhere to do
（尤指军事）任务，使命

topographical
relating to topography (= the study of the physical appearance of the natural features of land)
地形学的

elevations
the front or side of a building as shown on a drawing
立面图;立视图
the height of a place above the level of the sea
海拔;高度
a hill
丘;高地，高处
the fact of being given a more important position
提拔;晋升;提升

altitude
longtitude

The basin measures an amazing 2,500 km in diameter, and its average depth is 12 km. That makes it the biggest known crater in our solar system and it may well be the oldest. You know planetary researchers love studying deep craters to learn about the impacts that created them, how they redistributed pieces of the planet’s crust. And in this case, we especially want to know if any of the mantle, the layer beneath the crust, was exposed by the impact. Not everyone agrees, but some experts are convinced that whatever created the SPA Basin did penetrate the Moon’s mantle. And we need to find out, because much more than the crust, the mantle contains information about a planet’s or Moon’s total composition. And that’s key to understanding planet formation. Um…Dian?
diameter
(the length of) a straight line that reaches from one point on the edge of a round shape or object, through its centre, to a point on the opposite edge
直径


mantle
the responsibilities of an important position or job, especially as given from the person who had the job to the person who replaces them
（尤指前任留给继任者的）责任，衣钵
a layer of something that covers a surface
覆盖层
the part of the earth that surrounds the central core
地幔

beneath
crust
a hard outer covering of something
（某物的）硬皮，外壳

convinced
to persuade someone or make someone certain
说服;使相信;使信服

penetrate
to move into or through something
穿透；进入；渗入

composition

Dian:
So, the only way to know the basin’s age is to study its rocks directly?

Professor:
Well, from radio survey data, we know that the basin contains lots of smaller craters. So it must be really old, about 4 billion years, give or take a few hundred million years. But that’s not very precise. If we had rock samples to study, we’d know whether these small craters were formed by impacts during the final stages of planetary formation, or if they resulted from later meteor showers.
give or take
允许有...的小误差

basin
盆地

meteor
流星
meteor showers
流星雨

give or take
大概


craters
he round hole at the top of a volcano, or a hole in the ground similar to this
火山口;（火山口似的）坑

planetary
relating to planets
行星的

Dian:
But if we know around how old the Basin is, I’m not sure that’s reason enough to go to the Moon again.

Professor:
No…, but such crude estimates…um…we can do better than that.
crude
simple and not skilfully done or made
粗糙的；简陋的；粗制的；未加修饰的

Besides, there’s other things worth investigating, like is there water ice on the moon? Clementine’s data indicated that the wall of the south-polar crater was more reflective than expected. So some experts think there’s probably ice there. Also, data from a later mission indicates significant concentrations of hydrogen and by inference water less than a meter underground at both poles.
concentrations
浓度
significant concentrations

pole
a long, thin stick of wood or metal, often used standing straight up in the ground to support things
杆，柱
either of the two points at the most northern and most southern ends of the earth, around which the earth turns
（地球的）极（点）
either of two completely opposite or different opinions, positions, or qualities
（意见、立场或特点）截然相反的一端，极端

Student:
Well, if there’s water, how did it get there? Underground rivers?

Professor:
We think meteors that crashed into the moon or tails of passing comets may have introduced water molecules. Any water molecules that found their way to the floors of craters near the moon’s poles, that water would be perpetually frozen, because the floors of those craters are always in shadow. Um…furthermore, if the water ice was mixed in with rock and dust, it would be protected from evaporation.
floor

perpetually
always or very often
不断重复地;永无休止地

evaporation
the process of a liquid changing to a gas, especially by heating
蒸发

Dian:
So are you saying there might be primitive life on the moon?

Professor:
That’s not my point at all. Um… o.k., say there is water ice on the moon. That would be of very practical value for a future moon base for astronauts. Water ice could be melted and purified for drinking. It could also be broken down into its component parts - oxygen and hydrogen. Oxygen could be used to breathe, and hydrogen could be turned into fuel, rocket fuel. So water ice could enable the creation of a self-sustaining moon base someday, a mining camp perhaps or a departure point for further space exploration.
melted
having turned soft or into a liquid
融化的;熔化的

purified
to remove bad substances from something to make it pure
使纯净，净化
to remove immoral thoughts or acts from something
净化思想（或行为）

self-sustaining
able to continue to exist without help from anyone or anything else
可自我维持的

depart
to go away or leave, especially on a journey
出发，动身，启程

Student:
But hauling tons of equipment to the moon to make fuel and build a life support system for a moon base, wouldn’t that be too expensive?
hauling
to pull something heavy slowly and with difficulty
（用力）拉，拖（重物）

Professor:
Permanent base, maybe a ways off, but we shouldn’t have to wait for that. The dust at the bottom of the SPA Basin really does have a fascinating story to tell. I wouldn’t give for a few samples of it.
Permanent


maybe a ways off
there is a long way to go
也许还有一段路要走
