Oh, there you are.

I'm sorry, I'm late. I was having printer problems.

Printers do sometimes have a mind of their own.

Anyway, I finally got this thing printed.

Okay? Let's have a look. Good. That's exactly the kind of detailed outline.I wanted you to work on before starting on the paper itself.But where's your title?You'll need a title.

Um, how about the surrogate life? The lady in waiting in 18th century French comedy?
surrogate
replacing someone else or used instead of something else
替代的;代理的

The surrogate life not bad.

You know, I've never really liked working with an outline, but I think I'm beginning to get it.

Well, they do help as a rule. They force you to consider the structure of your paper and the logic of your argument. I find them very useful.
argument
a reason or reasons why you support or oppose an idea or suggestion, or the process of explaining these reasons
理由，论据，论点；论证，说理
Like a roadmap for getting from point A to point B
from point A to point B

A roadmap?Well, yes, in the sense of showing where your destination is, but remember, road maps often show lots of different ways to get from here to there.

What you have to do is make some choices.

Well,yes.But writing up an outline before I begin as always seemed so limiting.

Doesn't an argument actually evolve as you're writing it?Kind of like finding your way as you go along?
as，前后动作有关联，都为持续性动作
go along
Absolutely. The outline isn't meant to be set in stone. It's it's a kind of guideline to provide a general direction.
to be set in stone
不可更改
And also it helps you to remember what you want to include in the paper along the way.

So as long as everything that's in the outline gets into the paper, I'm Free to push the argument as far as it will take. Take me,
get into
push the argument as far as it will take
这里的take意思是“能承受、能允许、能发展到”（某种程度）

Well, yes, within space limitations, I don't want 25 page essays, but I think that's a good rule of thumb. You have to cover the main points. Well.
a good rule of thumb
But to write a paper that's more than just, okay
more that just
不仅仅是
well, if you can take your discussion in an unexpected direction and be convincing enough to bring your reader along in the process
take sth in discussion
then your papers likely to be more than just good enough.

In fact, those are the essays I love to get. But let's take things one step at a time, shall we?
let's take things one step at a time
I never heard anyone say that before?

One step at a time?

No, sorry, that it's a good thing to take a risk.

Well, remember, it has to be justified by the material, and the main.still have to be covered. Now for the next meeting, I'd like to discuss your bibliography.
bibliography

You'll have to be judicious, you know selective.
judicious

An awful lot has been written about the plays of this period, so choose carefully. And at this stage, I'd like you to keep it small. Say, a dozen entries at most.

Can I use suggested readings from the syllabus?
syllabus

I would expect you to? So i'll see you next Wednesday.

Sure, thing. And i'll try to be on time from now on,

oh, I know just how uncooperative printers can be.


from point A to point B
literally: move from one location to another
figuratively: process, from one state,situation to another

push the argument as far as it will take
推进

a good rule of thumb
经验法则

more that just
不仅仅是

take sth in direction
将...引领到正确的道路上

one step at a time
一步一个脚印

judicious
having or showing reason and good judgment in making decisions
明断的;明智而审慎的

An awful lot
a very large amoun

syllabus
(a plan showing) the subjects or books to be studied in a particular course, especially a course that leads to an exam
教学大纲，课程大纲

transition
a change from one form or type to another, or the process by which this happens
转变；过渡

bibliography
a list of the books and articles that have been used by someone when writing a particular book or article
参考书目，文献目录

biography
the life story of a person written by someone else
传记


