Listen to part of a lecture in a psychology class.

Okay. Let's begin with a quick review. We've covered different aspects of preverbal development in infants
(noun)a baby or a very young child
婴儿
(noun)a student at an infant school
幼儿学校的学生

preverbal
adj.(幼儿)前语言期的，习得语言能力前的;

like when they're making random emotions and sounds or recognizing voices or or beginning to discriminate between different sounds.
discriminate
to treat a person or particular group of people differently, especially in a worse way from the way in which you treat other people, because of their race, gender, sexuality, etc.
歧视;区别对待
to be able to see the difference between two things or people
区分，区别；分辨，辨别

But with everything we've talked about so far, the babies mostly reacting to what its caregiver does.

And aside from expressing expressing basic needs, baby really isn't initiating communication.
aside
on or to one side
在旁边；到（或向）一边
（noun）a remark that someone makes in a quiet voice because they do not want everyone to hear it
小声说的话
aside from
beside from
apart from

initiating
to cause something to begin
开始，创始

So today we'll see how babies start to become active partners with their caregivers.

For the first 7 or 8 months, the baby responds to stimuli, but we don't see intentional attempts to communicate.

What I mean is part from their immediate needs. Babies don't communicate anything about the world around them.

Then typically, at about 9 months old, the baby enters a new an important stage in normal,communicative development,and will begin to engage with others as an active participant.
engage
to employ someone
雇用;聘用
to interest someone in something and keep them thinking about it
吸引住，使感兴趣
to make one part of a machine fit into and move together with another part of a machine
（使）（机器）啮合，接合，衔接
engage with sb
与他人有效互动(engage with others)的核心在于主动沟通、理解对方需求并建立双向联系‌, 这一能力在社交、教育、职场等场景中均有广泛应用

And this is essential for real intentional communication. To understand what's going on here. Let's look at something called joint attention.

So the ability to share a focus of attention with someone else that's joint attention.

Two or more people have a connected awareness of the same thing. And in just a few minutes, we'll watch a video about babies beginning to use this vital skill.

We'll see how using joint attention begins to lead towards intentional communication.
lead towards
导致

But where does an infant learn this skill? Well, from its adult caregiver, the infant begins to follow the gaze of the adult,
glare/glance/stare/gaze/glimpse
(1)glare侧重含有敌对情绪的“怒视”。
(2)glance指快速地“一扫”“一瞥”。
(3)stare指睁大眼睛出神地看或注视,凝视,多出于惊讶、好奇、羡慕等,有时是粗鲁无礼的。
(4)gaze多指由于喜爱、憧憬或快乐而长时间无意识地注视。
(5)glimpse无意识地一瞥,看到粗略印象,强调结果。

to try to see what the adult is focusing attention on and to share with the adult, the experience of looking at this object.

Babies may do this for several months and by looking back and forth between the object of focus and the caregiver
caregiver
someone who takes care of a person who is young, old, or sick
看护者，护理员

the baby is able to coordinate eye contact and a focal point with someone else.
coordinate
to make many different things work effectively as a whole
协调；使相配合
focal
central and important
中心的；重要的

First, by just following the caregivers gaze, and later at around 9 months or so, by making sounds or using gestures like like pointing at what they're both looking at.

And here, it becomes apparent that the infant is intentionally trying to communicate its desires and interests.
apparent
able to be seen or understood
清晰可见的；显而易见的；明白易懂的

This is a big breakthrough in the infants life, because now it's not just the adult directing the baby's attention.

The baby has learned to deliberately tracked and direct the adults attention.

Like when a baby sees a cat and and appoints to it while looking at the caregiver to try to get the caregiver to look at it, too.

Another example, when my niece wants a toy that's out of reach, she looks her dad in the eyes, makes a noise and points to the toy.
niece
a daughter of your brother or sister, or a daughter of your husband's or wife's brother or sister
侄女;外甥女

Of course. I don't have to imagine my family. This isn't something particular to my niece. And by the way, these are considered to be two distinct types of pointing.

The infant either points to request something like a toy, or points to share something like the interesting cat walking past.

And another thing, the skill of joint attention is extremely important in building vocabulary, because it helps infants to see and understand what others are talking about.

Think about it. How can you learn new words unless you understand what the speakers are referring to? The adults words would would be just sounds with no meaning.

So when the child hears an adult, say a new word, it can learn the meaning of this vocabulary by matching the language with whatever they're both looking at.

That is the focus of their joint attention. And when the infant itself begins to control their joint attention point

and in effect, to get the adult to name things, well, as you might guess, vocabulary learning increases dramatically.

Okay? So over the next 2 weeks, we'll see what happens when infants begin to control joint attention.

This will give you insights into everything from language development and infants to their social and emotional development
give you insights into

and help you understand how to create the best possible learning environments for them, and also to support children who have developmental problems or disabilities, all right.

Now, for that video of some infants who haven't yet learned to make active use of joint attention along with some who have this video really captures the differences.

Some of you may want to do your semester project on how infants actively use the skill, joint attention.

So notice the kinds of situations the researchers in the video make use of, to get the infants to demonstrate their joint attention skills

that might prove helpful for when you yourselves work with the group of infants in your project.

commitment
willingness to give your time and energy to a job, activity, or something that you believe in
忠诚;投入;奉献;承诺，保证，诺言
something that you must do or deal with that takes your time
必须做（或处理）的事情

