Listen to part of a lecture in a literature class.

Okay, beef. Um, in today's class, I want to talk a little bit about autobiography and memoir.
biography
the life story of a person written by someone else
传记

autobiography
a book about a person's life, written by that person
自传

memoir
a book or other piece of writing based on the writer's personal knowledge of famous people, places, or events
传记，传略

They're both terms for genres of writing,writing about your own life,but they're different.
genres
a style, especially in the arts, that involves a particular set of characteristics
（尤指艺术的）风格，类型，体裁

writing
a person's style of writing with a pen on paper that can be recognized as their own
笔迹;书法
the written work, such as stories or poems, of one person or a group of people
文学作品；著作
the activity of creating pieces of written work, such as stories, poems, or articles
写作;创作
the skill or activity of producing words on a surface
（用笔）书写

And I want to talk about, well, I wanna start by talking about the relationship between the two words.

Um, if you look at the word autobiography, and that's probably a more familiar term, the story of a person's life as written by themselves.
as
And the three roots in the world are very clear auto, which means self BIO, which means life and graph, which has to do with writing, uh, memoir, may be, a less familiar term.

And I wanna spend a little more time talking about it. It comes to English, borrowed from French.And its meaning,as I think you can see in the word,is sort of related to memory.
sort of
Now,there's some important differences of how these types of writing are approached.And autobiography generally is an attempt by the person to tell the whole story of their life.

Uh, they are writing it themselves, but they attempt to be relatively objective. Uh, they tend to start at the beginning and well, they go as far as they can.

Um, memoir is is really trying to do something different um, in that. It's it's not necessarily the attempt to tell the whole story of a life. And it can be even more subjective.

I should could make a distinction, between maybe what i'll call the traditional memoir,

or the sort of memoirs that were more common in the past tended to be pieces of writing about an external event, written by someone who participated in that event.

So you might have a famous statesman or politician typically writing about important political or world events they were involved in.
statesman

I should could make a distinction, between maybe what i'll call the traditional memoir,

or the sort of memoirs that were more common in the past tended to be pieces of writing about an external event, written by someone who participated in that event

And and you'd read that kind of memoir to get sort of more of a subjective view of what happened.
sort of more of
稍微增加一些

Then there's the contemporary memoir. It's a kind of writing with with even more focus on the individual and on the experience of the writer themselves.

And compared to autobiography, memoirs, contemporary memoirs are usually a lot more limited in scope.

They often deal with just one period in someone's life. A lot of great contemporary memoirs have been written on, themes of childhood,
themes

or you can also have memoirs that deal with just an aspect of someone's life.

Uh, there's a great one by a woman named Vivian gornett called fierce attachments. Uh, it covers about 20 or 30 years of her life.

The whole focus of the book is just on her relationship with her mother.

And so it's sort of, it's,the story of her and her mother and their relationship.

So, autobiography places, most of its emphasis on the importance of a person's life and what they accomplished , in a memoir.

And here we can go back to how it's related to the word memory. The focus is on the writers perception, and how they they felt or what their own view of their experience was.
go back
to return
返回，回到
to be returned
返还，归还
to have existed since a time in the past
追溯到，回溯到

perception
a belief or opinion, often held by many people and based on how things seem
认识，观念，看法
the quality of being aware of things through the physical senses, especially sight
感觉，知觉;感知
someone's ability to notice and understand things that are not obvious to other people
感知能力;认识能力;洞察力

Uh, memoirs focus not so much on on getting the facts right, as on giving the reader a very vivid sense of what some part of their life felt like.
vivid
Vivid descriptions, memories, etc. produce very clear, powerful, and detailed images in the mind
（描述、记忆等）栩栩如生的，鲜活的，生动的
very brightly coloured
（颜色）鲜艳的，明亮的


Perhaps for that reason, with memoir, you often get into questions about truthfulness or accuracy.
get into questions
对…着迷”或“深入研究
I’m getting into this project，meaning I am deeply involved in and interested in this project‌
“进入”、“陷入”
Nobody likes to get into trouble，meaning no one likes to get into trouble‌

truthfulness
the quality of being honest and not containing or telling any lies
真实，诚实

So there have been a number of memoirs where there's been a controversy about whether it should be considered a true,
controversy
a lot of disagreement or argument about something, usually because it affects or is important to many people
争议;争论;争辩

a very subjective story of someone's life and experience, or if it's sort of crosses the line into fiction.
crosses the line
‌越界
做得过分

Any questions at this point？

Uh, has there ever been a case of competing memoirs?

Um, a case of （two people writing about a similar） , oh, I'm sure sure （the same experience？）. Oh, I'm sure inevitably.

Uh, you see that a lot in contemporary politics,how many memoirs are out there about the Clinton administration?Uh,probably about a couple of dozens. So yeah, absolutely.

It seems like this has become a very popular form.(Aha).

And it,I mean, I know of a writer and there was a competition in her family to give the the most authentic account of how things were when they were growing up.
authority
the moral or legal right or ability to control
威信；权力；管辖权
a group of people with official responsibility for a particular area of activity
当局；官方；当权者
an expert on a subject
权威人士;专家;泰斗

authentic
If something is authentic, it is real, true, or what people say it is.
真的；真正的；可靠的；可信的

account
an arrangement with a bank to keep your money there and to allow you to take it out when you need to
账户，户头
a written or spoken description or record of an event
报道;报告;记述;描述

explain
指把某事向原来不了解、不清楚的人解释明白、说清楚等。
interpret
着重以特殊的知识、经验来解释难理解的事情
illustrate
指用实例或插图、图表加以说明
clarify
把已发生的事件。情况和现状说清楚
account
某事物如何符合自然法则或逻辑

And there's been several of them written. Yeah,the most authentic or the most you know sell serving.I'm sure that's open to debate.