Listen to a conversation between a student and an employee at the university conference center.

Hi,my parents are coming next weekend to see me perform in the Jazz concert.They wanted to find out about hotels in the area.
see sb do sth
see sb dong sth
And well,my roommate said you can put them up here on campus.
put sb up
Well, our conference center includes a full service hotel, but when the university is hosting a conference or a workshop, we do give priority to registered participants.
workshop
a room or building where things are made or repaired using machines and/or tools
车间，厂房，作坊
a meeting of people to discuss and/or perform practical work in a subject or activity
专题讨论会，研讨会
to prepare a play for being shown in a theatre by discussing and working on different versions of it
（正式演出前）预演（常伴有讨论、对不同版本的修改等）

Now, if there's nothing going on or there are still rooms available, then anyone can reserve them. Let's see. Um, when did you say they're coming?
they are coming
可表示现在在进行时或者将要发生的动作
Next weekend.

Um, when exactly

Well, uh, the concerts on Saturday, and I think they wanted to stay for two nights, Friday, and Saturday.

Well, actually, there's a training workshop next week, but it ends on Saturday. We're booked through Saturday morning, but I could give you a room for Saturday night.

Um. So how soon could they arrive on Saturday? I mean, they'll probably wanna change and stuff before the concert that afternoon.
how soon:
再过多久
Well, check in time is one pm.

Oh,that should give them plenty of time. So I guess one night will be,okay?

And how much of the rooms？$90 a night for double occupancy. I'll need payment in advance to confirm the reservation.
occupancy
omeone's use of a room or building for the purposes of living or working
居住;占用;占据

Can I use my credit card?

That's fine. If you'll just sign this form here while I take your card. Oh, and let me give you a parking pass. Are they driving?
parking pass
停车通行证
Are they driving

Oh, right. I guess they'll need that while they're here.

Yes, it's good for anywhere on campus, not just the conference center.

Great. Um, just one more thing. I don't know if you know anything about this, but well, you've already been so helpful and all, but I was wondering seat on Sunday.

Before they go back,they wanted to take a little day trip with me to see sugar land falls.

They say they've heard so much about it,but I've never been there before.Would you happen to?

We get asked that all the time, here's a brochure for visitors to the area. There's plenty in there on sugar land falls.
brochure
a type of small magazine that contains pictures and information on a product or a company
小册子;资料（或广告）手册

land
falls

It's probably the most popular tourist attraction around.It's quite beautiful.I think they even have a tour Guide there,and then there's natals falls too.Have you ever been there?

Nope, haven't even heard of that one.

Well, natals falls isn't as big. But it's so close to sugar land that you could visit both on Sunday. In fact, there's even a shuttle bus between the two.
shuttle
a vehicle or aircraft that travels regularly between two places
穿梭运行的车辆，接驳车;穿梭航班
in weaving, a device that is used to carry the thread that goes across the cloth between the threads that go down the cloth
梭子

Or if you prefer, it's about a 10-minute ride by car. The brochure has a map and it's got lots of other tourist Information, local restaurants and so on.
10-minute ride
10分钟车程，泛指一切交通工具
10-minute drive
10分钟车程，指定交通工具

Great, thanks. This will really help.

And metals falls. Well, this is really why I suggest it. You can go swimming there underneath the waterfall as a tourist site.
underneath
under or below
在…底下；在…下面

waterfall
water, especially from a river or stream, dropping from a higher to a lower point, sometimes from a great height
瀑布

It's not much compared to the bigger falls, but it's just the perfect size for swimming and Sunday supposed to be quite hot. So...

That sounds great. I'd better tell my parents to bring their bathing suits.

suits
a jacket and trousers or a jacket and skirt that are made from the same material
一套衣服，套装
swimming suit
a set of clothes or a piece of clothing to be worn in a particular situation or while doing a particular activity
（特殊用途的）套装，服装
a problem taken to a law court by an ordinary person or an organization rather than the police in order to obtain a legal decision
（由普通人或警方以外的机构提起的）诉讼，讼案
（verb）
to be right for a particular person, situation, or occasion
适合，适宜于
(usually of a colour or style of clothes) to make someone look more attractive
（通常指颜色或衣服式样）适合，与…相称
to be convenient and cause the least difficulty for someone
对…方便

suitcase
