Listen to part of a lecture in a biology class.

Now, organic compounds, we'll talk first about amino acids and their molecular composition.
amino acids
氨基酸


Since they make up their the building blocks of proteins, and all living organisms depend on them, human life wouldn't be possible without them.
building blocks

But first, I want to was maybe a little peripheral to our main concerns, but it's intriguing, at least.
peripheral
Something that is peripheral is not as important as something else.
次要的，附带的

intriguing
very interesting because of being unusual or mysterious
非常有趣的;引人入胜的;神秘的

I think it's interesting to think about. It's also fairly controversial. The question of how they arose, how organic compounds originated on earth.
controversial
causing disagreement or discussion
有争议的;引起争议的

And of course, there is several theories. One theory says, we know these compounds are composed of carbon and hydrogen, right? That's why we consider them organic.

But one idea is that they came originally from inorganic elements that amino assets can be, in fact, were created out of non organic components,
inorganic
无机元素

that these non organic parts were present as separate elements on early earth.

And later combined in such a way to form organic compounds like amino acids.

But there's other evidence that says that points to media rights as a source of organic compounds, on earth.

Now, the idea that non organic elements combined really took cold when you may have heard of the Stanley Miller experiment.


In1953, Miller,and he's a graduate student at the University of Chicago.
graduate stduent
a person with bachole degree and puesuing the further eduacation
postgraduate stduent

thesis
a long piece of writing on a particular subject, especially one that is done for a higher college or university degree
论文
the main idea, opinion, or theory of a person, group, piece of writing, or speech
论题，命题;论点

dissertation
a long piece of writing on a particular subject, especially one that is done in order to receive a degree at college or university
专题论文;学位论文

And he has an idea that the first organic compounds might have formed from non organic compounds. And he sets out to show how.
set out
to start an activity with a particular aim
（怀着特定目的）开始，着手
to give the details of something or to explain it, especially in writing, in a clear, organized way
（尤指书面）详述，阐明
to arrange something, usually a number of things, in an attractive or organized way
摆放；陈列



So he puts together an airtight apparatus, and he puts in water and a mixture of four gases, methane, ammonia, water, vapor, and hydrogen.
put together
to put the parts of something in the correct places and join them to each other
把…组装在一起；装配；拼合，组合
to prepare a piece of work by collecting several ideas and suggestions and organizing them
（通过搜集观点和建议）整理出，拼凑，凑成

mixture
a substance made from a combination of different substances, or any combination of different things
混合物;混合体;混合料

airtight
completely closed so that no air can get in or out
密封的，气密的，不透气的

apparatus
a set of equipment or tools or a machine that is used for a particular purpose
设备;仪器;装置;用具

methane
a gas with no smell or colour, often used as a fuel
甲烷，沼气

ammonia
a gas with a strong, unpleasant smell used in making explosives, fertilizers (= substances that help plants grow), and some cleaning products
氨;氨水

vapor
gas or extremely small drops of liquid that result from the heating of a liquid or solid
蒸气;雾气


Those were the gases that were then thought to have composed the atmosphere of the earth in its early stages.
stage
a part of an activity or a period of development
阶段;发展时期
one of the separate parts of a rocket, each part having its own engine
（火箭的）级
the area in a theatre that is often raised above ground level and on which actors or entertainers perform
舞台

Okay? And he hooks up some electrodes to this system. And for a week, he cycles the mixture through the apparatus and subjects it to intermittent jolts of electricity.
hook
a curved device used for catching or holding things, especially one attached to a surface for hanging things on
钩子，挂钩
a way of hitting in boxing, cricket, or golf
（拳击的）勾拳;（板球或高尔夫球的）曲球
to fasten something with a hook, hang something on a hook, or catch something with a hook
（用钩子）固定，挂，钩住

hook up
to meet or begin to work with another person or other people
与（他人）接触，与（他人）一起工作
连接

trailer
a box on wheels that is pulled by a car and is used for taking things from one place to another
拖车；挂车
the separate back part of a large truck
（大卡车的）挂车

electrodes
the point at which an electric current enters or leaves something, for example, a battery
电极

cycles
a bicycle
自行车，脚踏车

subject
the thing that is being discussed, considered, or studied
（讨论、考虑或研究的）主题，话题;问题;题目
an area of knowledge that is studied in school, college, or university
（中小学或大学的）学科;科目;专业
a person, thing, or situation that is written about in a book, article, etc. or shown in a picture, etc.
（书、文章或画作的）主题，题目
使服从”或“使遭受”

intermittent
not happening regularly or continuously; stopping and starting repeatedly or with periods in between
间歇的，断断续续的

jolts
to (cause something or someone to) move suddenly and violently
（使）震动，（使）猛然摇动

subjects it to intermittent jolts of electricity
对某个物体或系统施加间歇性的电击或电流脉冲

A week later, he analyzes the contents of the chamber, and he discovers that he's produced organic compounds to check his results, he then conducts to control experiments.
chamber

He needed to rule out the possibility that the gas mixture was contaminated, that it contained trace amounts of organic elements.
rule out
to decide or say officially that something is impossible or will not happen, or that something or someone is not suitable
把…排除在外;拒绝考虑

contaminated
poisonous or not pure
受污染的

trace amounts of
微量

So in the first control experiment, he sterilizes the gases for 18 hours at 130℃,before he subjects them to electricity,
sterilizes
to perform a medical operation on someone in order to make them unable to have children
为…做绝育手术，使绝育
to make something completely clean and free from bacteria
为…消毒，使无菌

then he follows the original process, and he gets the same result. So no contamination.

And then in his second control, he ran the experiment just like the original experiment, except without the electricity.

The the same mixture were water and gases, but he doesn't run electricity through it.
run electricity through it
运行电力通过它

But this time, no organic compounds were produced.

So it seemed that electricity was a critical part of creating the organic molecules in his original experiment
a critical part of creating the organic molecules

that it provided the energy needed to combine the basic inorganic elements.

So this could show how it all got started on earth, right? You've got water and these basic atmospheric gases, and they get struck by lightning.
get struck by lightning
被闪电击中

And bingo, organic compounds are created, and you've got the building blocks of life, not life itself, just some of the necessary elements for life.
building blocks
基本要素

Now,one criticism of millers experiments was that,it was shown that the composition of earth early atmosphere was a bit different from the mixture of gases that Miller used.

But still, there have been experiments since then, which suggests that if you take the elements that we now think were present at that time,

and subject them to some kind of burst of energy,
burst of energy
能量的爆发

whether it be from lightning or from cosmic radiation or from extremely high temperatures or whatever that you can get simple organic compounds produced.
cosmic
宇宙

whether it be
"whether it be"结构属于虚拟语气中的让步状语从句，表示无论何种情况均适用，通常省略should并保留动词原形be，是一种正式或略带古风的表达方式
无论A还是B
whether it be ... that
whether引导让步状语从句，that引导结果状语从句

You get the same result the Miller got.In organic elements plus energy,yields organic compounds. Okay? Not conclusive, but interesting, right?

But then you also have PR op on en TS of the meteorite theory. Earth was bombarded with media rights between about3.8billion and4.5billion years ago.
meteorite
a piece of rock or other matter from space that has landed on earth
陨星；陨石

bombarded
to attack a place with continuous shooting or bombs
连续炮击;连续轰炸

And there's some evidence that meteorite may have brought with them a number of elements that are critical for life. Oxygen, sulfur, hydrogen, nitrogen, and organic compounds.
sulfur
a pale yellow chemical element that exists in various physical forms. It burns with a blue flame and a strong smell and is used in medicine and industry.
硫，硫磺
bring with sb sth
bring表示携带
sb表示目标对象
sth表示携带物品
I will bring me a blanket for everyone to sit on.

nitrogen
a chemical element that is a gas with no colour or taste, forms most of the earth's atmosphere, and is a part of all living things
氮（气）

Um, and just a few years ago, they found a couple um media rights that contained sugar-related compounds, which uh, as will later study are critical to all known life forms.
as will
事件按预期或意愿发生

Okay? So two very different ideas about how the basic building blocks of life might have arisen on earth.