Listen to a conversation between a student and a professor.

Professor:OK.Is this about the midterm exam?

Student:No, actually, I need to talk to you about the class project.

Professor:Ok, but it's not due for a couple months.
it is not due for

obligation
the fact that you are obliged to do something
义务；责任；职责
something that you must do
必须要做的事情

obliged
to be forced to do something or feel that you must do something
被迫做某事；必须做某事；只好做某事
used to thank someone and say that you are grateful
非常感谢，感激不尽，不胜感激

yet
still; until the present time
还，尚;迄今
from now and for a particular period of time in the future
从现在起至将来某个时间，还
even at this stage or time
仍然，还

Student:Well, we wanted to get started. Everything's going ok so far more or less.
more or less
或多或少
somewhat
approximately

You assigned a group to create an internet marketing campaign, and a strategy for a financial services company.
campaign
a planned group of especially political, business, or military activities that are intended to achieve a particular aim
（尤指政治、商业或军事的）专项活动，运动

We had a lot of problems at first, because we’re more familiar with a regular kind of retail store, one with products.
retail store
零售

Professor:Well, how is a financial services company not dealing with products?

Student:Well, you know what I mean? It's not like you can put it in a box and send it.

Professor:Okay. But what have you done so far? Have you sorted out your company’s objectives, your market?
sort out
to separate one type of things from a group of things
分拣出，挑出
to deal successfully with a problem, a situation, or a person who is having difficulties
解决，处理好
to punish or attack someone, usually to make the person understand that they have behaved badly
惩罚（某人）;收拾（某人）

objectives
something that you plan to do or achieve
目标；目的
based on real facts and not influenced by personal beliefs or feelings
客观的;如实的;不带个人感情的

Student:well... It just seems there's so much to consider like all the legal aspects, you know,financial regulations and stuff.
regulations
an official rule or the act of controlling something
规则，条例，法规;控制，管理
according to the rules or the usual way of doing things
一般的，普通的；规定的；正规的

Professor:well... In the real world, yes. But, for this project…

Student: Oh, ok. I'm also a bit fuzzy on a couple concepts, like the term differential advantage.
fuzzy
(of an image) having shapes that do not have clear edges, or (of a sound, especially from a television, radio, etc.) not clear, usually because of other unwanted noises making it difficult to hear
（图像）模糊不清的;（声音）杂乱的，有干扰的
differential
an amount of difference between things that are compared
差额；差距
based on a difference
有所区别的，有所差别的


Professor: So how might that work for a financial services company?

Student: Well, eh…

Professor: Oh, differential advantage. This is simply an advantage your company has over the competition. So what could that be?

Student: Location? like the business is it an easy to get to place?

Professor: Yes. But is that important for an internet based company?

Student: Duh, what about the number of employees?

Professor: Okay. Can you be more specific?

Student: If you had more employees, you could offer your customers better service.

Professor: Maybe. But fewer employees might be more profit. That's the bottom line.

Student: Oh, right. How about having a lot of different types of products?

Professor: Right. Good one. And of course, their reputation. And you're right about it being easier to come up with a strategy for a physical product,

something like whatever mobile telephones. You could say, well, our phones are the best with such and such a technology.

So is there anything else you wanted to discuss?

Student: I'm not sure. But I grew up doesn't seem to be, not everyone's getting involved.

A couple of us are doing all the work. I don't know how to get the others to do more.

Professor: Remember what I keep stressing in class. The most important business skills are people skills learning to manage, deal with people

Student: I know, but…

Professor: You know, some people need more structure than others.

Student: So we could, I guess we could give people specific tasks, like make the handouts for the class presentation?
handouts
a document given to students or reporters that contains information about a particular subject
（尤指发给学生或听报告的人的）讲义，印刷品
something such as food, clothing, or money that is given free to someone who has a great need for it
施舍物；救济款

Professor: Here you go. Design the logo, something specific.

Student: Ok. We can do that.

Professor: And in case it makes you feel better, I can always tell which group members have contributed the most.