Humanity has sent probes to every planet, so we now have a decent idea of what’s in our neighborhood. Even before that, astronomers tracked the movements of the solar system for millennia. Sometimes their eyes (or brains) played tricks. Or did they? What ever happened to the ghost planets, those worlds that never existed or once were but are no longer?
decent
socially acceptable or good
正派的；体面的，正经的；像样的，相当不错的
millennia
those worlds that never existed or once were but are no longer
never existed
从不存在
once were
曾经存在过
are no longer
现在不存在

The origin of the Moon was long a mystery, and, beginning in the 19th century, three competing theories emerged to solve it. In one, Earth and the Moon formed together in the same spot in the primordial solar nebula. In another, the early Earth spun so fast that it hurled out a blob that became the Moon. (One version of this theory held that the Pacific Ocean is the hole left behind.) In the third, the Moon formed elsewhere but was captured by Earth. However, none of these theories could adequately explain the current Earth-Moon system. In the 1970s a new proposal emerged: that a giant impact had formed the Moon. The impactor would have been the size of Mars and was given the name Theia (after the mother of Selene, the Greek Moon goddess). In the impact, Theia was destroyed, and the debris became the Moon. The debris may even have formed two moons, one smaller than the other. They eventually collided very slowly in what is described as something like a large landslide. The landslide side became what is now the Moon’s far side, and this theory would explain why the near and far sides of the Moon are so different.
the origin of the Moon. There are three thories.
primordial
existing at or since the beginning of the world or the universe
（从）太古时代存在的，原始的
basic and connected with an early stage of development
基本的

impactor
A large meteoroid, asteroid, comet, or other celestial object which causes an impact event.

meteor
流星

meteoroid
a piece of rock or other matter in space that has not yet entered the earth's atmosphere
流星体

asteroid
one of many large rocks that circle the sun
小行星

comet
an object that moves around the sun, usually at a great distance from it, that is seen on rare occasions from the earth as a bright line in the sky
彗星

nebula
a cloud of gas or dust in space, appearing either bright or dark
星云

spun
to (cause to) turn around and around, especially fast
（使）（尤指快速）旋转

hurled out
扔出去

debris
broken or torn pieces of something larger
碎片，残片

collided
(especially of moving objects) to hit something violently
（尤指移动的物体）相撞，碰撞

landslide
a mass of rock and earth moving suddenly and quickly down a steep slope
山体滑坡，塌方
he winning of an election with an extremely large number of votes
（选举中）一方选票占压倒性多数，大胜

This is not Mr. Spock’s home planet but a world that was thought by some 19th-century astronomers to be the closest planet to the Sun. Mercury’s orbit precesses so that its perihelion (the point at which it is closest to the Sun) moves. French astronomer Urbain-Jean-Joseph Le Verrier in 1859 explained the shift as being caused by one or more planets, or even an asteroid belt, very close to the Sun. (He previously had discovered Neptune, in 1846, by using Newton’s laws of gravity to explain the then-unseen planet’s effects on Uranus’s orbit.) Amateur astronomer Edmond Lescarbault told Le Verrier that he had watched a dark spot move across the Sun on March 26, 1859. Le Verrier was confident that this was one of the planets. He went ahead and named it Vulcan. However, no solid confirmation followed, and careful searches during solar eclipses turned up nothing. So what was moving the perihelion of Mercury? The problem was that Newton’s laws are not a complete description of gravity. It was not until Einstein proposed general relativity in 1915 that the solution was found. In Einstein’s theory, gravity is best described as a bending of space-time around an object. Newton’s laws worked well for the rest of the solar system but failed for Mercury, where the bending of space-time by the Sun is the most pronounced among all the planets. Einstein was able to calculate the motion of Mercury’s perihelion exactly, without any need for Vulcan.
orbit
the curved path through which objects in space move around a planet or star
（天体围绕行星或恒星运行的）轨道
to follow a curved path around a planet or star
绕轨道运行，沿轨道围绕（行星或恒星）运行

vicinity
the area around a place or where the speaker is
周围地区；邻近地区；附近

round
in a circular direction or position; around
围绕;环绕;绕过

around
in a position or direction surrounding, or in a direction going along the edge of or from one part to another (of)
四处，周围；围绕，（环）绕；掉转

casual
Casual clothes are not formal or not suitable for special occasions.
（衣服）休闲的;便装的
not regular or fixed
不固定的;不定期的;临时的

bend
to (cause to) curve
（使）弯曲
to move your body or part of your body so that it is not straight
弯腰
a curved part of something
弯曲处

axis
a real or imaginary straight line going through the centre of an object that is spinning, or a line that divides a symmetrical shape into two equal halves
轴（线）;中心线

orientation
the particular things that a person prefers, believes, thinks, or usually does
（某人的）特别喜好，价值取向，信仰观念
the particular interests, activities, or aims of an organization or business
兴趣；取向；目标
training or preparation for a new job or activity
（对新工作、新活动的）培训，准备

perihelion
the point in an object's orbit (= a curved path in space around a planet or star) around the sun at which the object is closest to the sun
近日点

Amateur
taking part in an activity for pleasure, not as a job
业余爱好的，非职业的

as being caused

go ahead
to start to do something
开始做;着手干
said to someone in order to give them permission to start to do something
（用于给别人许可）进行，开始，做



Many stars have large rocky planets bigger than ours, dubbed “super-Earths,” orbiting closely with periods of 100 days or less. Our solar system has only one small planet, Mercury, with a period of 88 days, that close to the Sun. So why doesn’t our solar system have any super-Earths? The answer may be because we have Jupiter. Computer models show that early in our solar system’s history, Jupiter migrated inward from its current position, and, as it moved closer to the Sun, it changed the orbits of the material in the super-Earth region to be more elliptical. Had there been any super-Earths, they would have collided much more often with the material perturbed by Jupiter and, over a period of merely tens of thousands of years, would have fallen into the Sun.
inward
on or towards the inside
里面的;向里的

elliptical
having an oval shape
椭圆（形）的

perturbed
worried
担心的;烦恼的;心绪不宁的

Like the Moon, Mars has two very different sides. The relatively smooth northern hemisphere is about 6 km (4 miles) lower in elevation than the cratered highlands of the southern hemisphere. One explanation for that difference might be found in the violence of the early solar system. At about the same time that Theia might have hit Earth, a heavy body about 3,000 km (1,900 miles) across could have crashed into Mars (that object would of course have been destroyed), making Mars’s northern hemisphere the largest impact crater in the solar system.
violence
actions or words that are intended to hurt people
暴力行为;激烈的言辞

cratered
having one or more round holes in the surface
表面有圆孔的;坑坑洼洼的

crater
the round hole at the top of a volcano, or a hole in the ground similar to this
火山口;（火山口似的）坑


In 1766 Prussian astronomer Johann Titius noticed that the distances of planets from the Sun seem to follow a mathematical pattern. This finding was popularized in 1772 by German astronomer Johann Bode and became known as Bode’s law. The law fit the distances of the six known planets—Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn—very well, but it also predicted that there should be a planet between Mars and Jupiter. Uranus was discovered in 1781 at close to the distance predicted for a seventh planet, giving a boost to the search for the planet beyond Mars. On January 1, 1801, Italian priest Giuseppe Piazzi found Ceres (now classified as a dwarf planet) at the expected distance. Astronomers were jubilant at the validation of Bode’s law, but in the next six years three more objects—Pallas, Juno, and Vesta—were discovered in the Mars-Jupiter gap. As more of these bodies were discovered in the 19th century, it became clear that these asteroids, as they came to be called, were not planets. But what were they? Since Bode’s law predicted a planet and there were only small fragments to be found, the asteroids were thought to be remnants of a planet that broke apart in a terrible cataclysm. However, that idea has not held up. The entire mass of the asteroid belt is less than the Moon, and gravitational interactions with Jupiter would not allow a planet to form there. (Bode’s law hasn’t stood up too well, either. It didn’t predict Neptune or Pluto.)
popularized
to make something become popular
宣传，推广;使大众化

boost
to increase or improve something
改善；提高；增强；推动

dwarf
in stories for children, a creature like a little man with magical powers
（儿童故事里有魔法的）小矮人

remnants
a small piece or amount of something that is left from a larger original piece or amount
残余（部分）；剩余（部分）；零头；零料

cataclysm
an event that causes a lot of destruction, or a sudden, violent change
剧变；大灾难；大变动


fragments
a small piece or a part, especially when broken from something whole
小片，小块;（尤指）碎片，碎块
to break something into small parts or to be broken up in this way
（使）支离破碎；打碎；（使）分裂
