7 Wonders of America
It’s almost time for that long-awaited family vacation, and you’re starting to make plans. With so many destination choices, how do you decide where to go? For many families, that choice is often one of America’s national parks. The U.S. government maintains hundreds of national parks, monuments, recreation areas, and historic sites that are visited by millions of people each year. These include many of the country’s most spectacular and scenic locations as well as many of its most historic and storied places. Here are seven of the best national parks the United States has to offer. Four of them are listed as UNESCO World Heritage sites.
spectacular
very exciting to look at
壮观的，壮丽的;令人惊叹的
especially great
非常大的，巨大的;惊人的

scenic
having or allowing you to see beautiful natural features
风景优美的

recreation
(a way of) enjoying yourself when you are not working
娱乐；消遣（方式）
the act of making something exist or happen again
再现
something that has been made or done to be the same as something that happened or existed in the past
复制


sites
a place where something is, was, or will be built, or where something happened, is happening, or will happen
（建筑物的）地点，位置；建筑工地；（某事发生的）地点，现场

Yellowstone National Park
It is hard not to list this one first—the “mother park,” the country’s and world’s first national park. Occupying the northwest corner of Wyoming and slivers of eastern Idaho and southern Montana, Yellowstone is an enchanting place. The greatest draws are its hydrothermal features—the world’s largest collection of geysers (notably the renowned Old Faithful), colorful hot pools, mud cauldrons, and hot springs and terraces. But the park also features a beautiful lake, which occupies the cauldron of an ancient volcano, and a majestic two-tiered waterfall that is at the western end the spectacular Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone River that features towering multihued rock formations. Herds of bison and elk roam the park, and Yellowstone is famous for its bears—and, since the 1990s, its packs of wolves.
slivers
a very small, thin piece of something, usually broken off something larger
碎片，薄片

enchanting
very pleasant
使人喜悦的;令人陶醉的;迷人的

hydrothermal

geysers
a hole in the ground from which hot water and steam come out
间歇喷泉

notably
especially or most importantly
格外地，特别地
to an important degree, or in a way that can or should be noticed
明显地；显然；值得注意地

renowned
famous for something
著名的

cauldrons
a large, round container for cooking in, usually supported over a fire, and used especially in the past
（通常指架在火上的）大锅

Faithful
firm and not changing in your friendship with or support for a person or an organization, or in your belief in your principles
忠诚的;忠实的
If your husband, wife, or partner is faithful, he or she does not have a sexual relationship with anyone else.
（配偶或性伴侣）忠诚的，忠贞的
true or not changing any of the details, facts, style, etc. of the original
如实的，丝毫不作改动的
following a particular religion
虔诚的

majestic
beautiful, powerful, or causing great admiration and respect
雄伟的;壮丽的;威严的

two-tiered
used to describe something that is organized in two levels or stages
两级的，两重的

towering
very high and making people feel respect
高耸的
very great
杰出的，卓越的
 
multihued
having several different colours
多色的，彩色的

herds
a large group of animals of the same type that live and feed together
兽群;牧群

bison
a large wild animal, similar to a cow but having a larger head and shoulders covered in hair, found in North America and Europe. The North American bison is also called a buffalo.
（尤指北美）野牛

elk
a large deer with brownish-red fur and large antlers (= horns like branches) that lives in the forests of North America
驼鹿，麋

roam
to move about or travel, especially without a clear idea of what you are going to do
闲逛（于）；漫步（于）；漫游（于）

Grand Teton National Park
Just a short way south of Yellowstone in Wyoming, the magnificent Teton Range rises up sharply for more than a mile (1.6 km) from a lake-filled valley. It is one of America’s most breathtakingly scenic places and the subject of countless photographs. Sunrise on the range from a tent or from the park’s fine lodge is one of the most beautiful sights a visitor could hope to see. Hiking is popular on the park’s vast network of trails, especially in the narrow, deep valleys between the mountains with waterfalls cascading down the slopes. If you’re lucky, maybe you will get to eat lunch while watching a moose grazing nearby in a stream.
magnificent
very good, beautiful, or deserving to be admired
极好的;壮丽的;令人羡慕的

lake-filled
valley
an area of low land between hills or mountains, often with a river running through it
谷;山谷，溪谷

breathtakingly
in a way that is extremely exciting, beautiful, or surprising
极其刺激地;美得惊人地;惊人地

tent
a shelter made of canvas or a similar material and supported by poles and ropes, that you can fold up and carry with you
帐篷

lodge
to (cause to) become stuck in a place or position
（使）固定;（使）卡住
to put something in a safe place
存放，保管
to pay rent to stay somewhere
借宿，借住
a small house in the country, used especially by people on holiday or taking part in sports, or one on land belonging to a large house
（尤指度假者或体育活动者用的）乡间小屋，小舍

extensive
covering a large area; having a great range
广阔的，大面积的；覆盖范围广的


vast network of trails

cascade
a small waterfall, often one of a group
小瀑布（常指瀑布群的分支）
to fall quickly and in large amounts
如瀑布般下落；大量倾泻
to pass on information by giving it to just a few people, who then give it to more people; to be passed on in this way
逐层传递|传播|传达

slope
a surface that lies at an angle to the horizontal so that some points on it are higher than others
斜坡

moose
a type of large deer with large, flat antlers (= wide horns like branches) and a long nose that lives in the forests of North America, northern Europe, and Asia
麋，驼鹿

Grand Canyon National Park
Nothing can quite prepare a person for the awe-inspiring grandeur of one of the most famous places in the world. The Grand Canyon winds for 277 miles (446) km across northwestern Arizona in an intricately carved chasm of imposing peaks, buttes, gorges, and ravines in layers of red, buff and gray, delicate green and pink, brown, slate gray, and purple rock—all formed over millions of years. Great crowds of people from throughout the world come to see this marvel each year. Most visitors peer over the rim from up top to the canyon floor a mile below. The more hardy souls hike or ride down to the bottom and then must hike back up. The lucky ones experience the floor of the canyon from rafts that float down the Colorado River.
awe-inspiring
causing you to feel great respect or admiration
令人敬畏的;令人钦佩的

grandeur
he quality of being very large and special or beautiful
宏伟，壮丽，堂皇

winds
a current of air moving approximately horizontally, especially one strong enough to be felt
风;气流
If a road, path, or river winds, it follows a route that turns repeatedly in different directions.
（道路或河流等）曲折前进，蜿蜒
to turn or cause something to turn
绕;使卷绕

intricately
in a way that has a lot of small parts that are arranged in a complicated or delicate way
错综复杂地，复杂精细地
in a way that has many complicated details and is therefore difficult to understand
复杂地，难理解地


chasm
a very deep, narrow opening in rock, ice, or the ground
（岩石、地面或冰面的）裂隙;峡谷;深渊
a very large difference between two opinions or groups of people
（两种观点或两个团体之间的）深刻分歧，显著差别

imposing
having an appearance that looks important or causes admiration
壮观的，宏伟的;气宇不凡的

buttes
a hill that has steep sides and a flat top
（四周陡峭，顶部平坦的）小方山

gorges
a deep, narrow valley with steep sides, usually formed by a river or stream cutting through hard rock
（通常指河流冲刷而成的）峡，峡谷

ravines
a deep narrow valley with steep sides
峡谷，深谷

valley
an area of low land between hills or mountains, often with a river running through it
谷;山谷，溪谷

buff
a person who knows a lot about and is very interested in a particular subject
爱好者

delicate
needing careful treatment, especially because easily damaged
脆弱的；娇嫩的
needing to be done carefully
需要小心处理的

slate gray
a dark grey rock that can be easily divided into thin pieces, or a small, thin piece of this used to cover a roof
板岩，石板;（盖屋顶的）石板瓦

peer
to look carefully or with difficulty
仔细看，端详;费力地看
a person who is the same age or has the same social position or the same abilities as other people in a group
同龄人;同辈;同等社会地位（或能力）的人

peer over
凝视

rim
the outer, often curved or circular, edge of something
（圆形物的）外缘，边缘

canyon
a large valley with very steep sides and usually a river flowing along the bottom
峡谷

hardy
strong enough to bear extreme conditions or difficult situations
强壮的；能吃苦耐劳的
Hardy plants can live through the winter without protection from the weather.
（植物）耐寒的

souls
the spiritual part of a person that some people believe continues to exist in some form after their body has died, or the part of a person that is not physical and experiences deep feelings and emotions
灵魂;心性，心灵
the quality of a person or work of art that shows or produces deep good feelings
精神；热情，真挚情感；高尚情操；气魄

float down
顺流而下

Rocky Mountain National Park
Straddling the Continental Divide in north-central Colorado, this park encompasses a spectacular portion of the southern Rocky Mountains. It is home to dozens of peaks over 12,000 feet (3,650 meters) in elevation, capped by Longs Peak at 14,259 feet (4,346 meters). The park’s close proximity to Denver to the southeast makes it one of the country’s most-visited parks, and it is a haven for hikers, climbers, and campers. Many try their luck scaling Longs Peak, one of Colorado’s famed “Fourteener” mountains. Most, however, try climbing lower peaks or stay on the park’s hundreds of miles of trails. A highly popular activity is driving up Trail Ridge Road, which crosses the divide above 12,000 feet and affords  panoramic vistas.
Straddling
to sit or stand with your legs on either side of something
骑，跨坐;分开腿站在…上
Something that straddles a line, such as a border or river, exists on each side of it or goes across it
跨过，横跨（边界、河流等）

Continental
one of the seven large land masses on the earth's surface, surrounded, or mainly surrounded, by sea and usually consisting of various countries
洲，大洲，大陆

Divide
a difference or separation
分歧；隔阂

encompasses
to include different types of things
包含，包括（尤指很多不同事物）

portion
a part or share of something larger
一部分;一份

Peak
the highest, strongest, or best point, value, or level of skill
最高点，高峰

affords
to allow someone to have something pleasant or necessary
提供;给予

panoramic
with a view of a wide area
全景的

vistas
a view, especially a beautiful view from a high position
美景;（尤指从高处看到的）壮观景色
a possible future action or event that you can imagine
前景


