Listen to part of the lecture in an astronomy class.

Professor: OK.Here’s an interesting word, astrobiology. Have you come across the term astrobiology before?
come across
to behave in a way that makes people believe that you have a particular characteristic
表现得，让人觉得，给人以…印象

occasionally
sometimes but not often
偶尔，间或;有时

Male Student: It sounds like a cross between biology and astronomy.

(Yes)So the study of life, Astro-stars, space. So something to do with studying life in space?
astro-stars
something to do with


Professor: Yes, precisely. It's a relatively new science on the margins for a while,
margin
the amount by which one thing is different from another
差数，差额
the profit made on a product or service
利润
the outer edge of an area
边，缘，边沿，边缘
something that makes a particular thing possible, such as an extra amount of money, time, etc. allowed that makes it possible to deal with an emergency
备用的（金钱，时间等）


but it has now reached respectability, has aspects of biology, astronomy, geology.
respectability
the quality of being considered socially acceptable
体面；得体；值得尊敬

But, maybe it's also philosophy. I mean we're dealing with the unknown, making assumptions, speculations, which some think this goes a little beyond the usual role of science.

But anyway, one thing we're doing in astrobiology is that we're looking very carefully at microbes. Bacteria are one example of microbes.
microbes
a very small living thing, especially one that causes disease, that can only be seen with a microscope
微生物;（尤指致病的）细菌

They are tiny organisms. You need a microscope to see them.

So astrobiologists are interested in whether microbes might have been carried to earth on rocks from other planets.

And studies of a meteorite found in Antarctica seem to suggest that possibility,
meteorite
a piece of rock or other matter from space that has landed on earth
陨星；陨石

meteor

but it's not just microbes from other planets traveling to earth that scientists are studying.

Going in the other direction, they're looking at whether microbes from earth might have been carried to other planets.

Student: So could life the traveled from here exist somewhere else?

Professor: Yes,That's what's fascinating about this. But first, we better back up a bit.
back up
to support or help someone
支持，帮助（某人）
to say that someone is telling the truth
为（某人）作证
to prove something is true
证明，证实
to make an extra copy of computer information
给…备份

How could this happen? Microbes going from one planet to another.

One possibility is from the impact of asteroids and comets on planets.

When these objects hit a planet's surface, they form a crater, a hole, and material rocks get ejected from that crater and thrown up into the planet's atmosphere.
eject
to come out of a machine when a button is pressed, or to make something do this
使（从机器中）弹出

Some of the rocks might even escape the planet's gravity and go into outer space.

Ok. Most of the life in the ejected rocks would die due to extremely high pressures and the high speed of the rocks as to being thrown into space.

But if the living organism was inside a rock on the surface of the planet, but not right where the asteroid hit,
right
exactly or all the way
正好，恰好；一直，径直

there wouldn't be as much pressure on the rock and the organism might survive when the rock gets ejected into space.

Then there's the question of survival in space. Yes?

Female Student: I don't see how that could happen. I thought anything living would die in outer space.

Male student: There's no air, no food.

Professor: Yes and there's extreme temperatures, cosmic rays, ultraviolet radiation,
rays
a narrow beam of light, heat, etc. travelling in a straight line from its place of origin
光线，光束;（热能等的）辐射线
a small amount of a feeling that makes you feel happier or more full of hope
一线，少量的（积极情感或希望等）

ultraviolet
Ultraviolet light has a wavelength that is after the violet (= light purple) end of the range of colours that can be seen by humans. Light of this type causes the skin to become darker in the sun.
紫外线的

violet
having a bluish-purple colour
紫罗兰色的;蓝紫色的

but experiments involving bacteria in space have shown that they can survive these conditions.

If a microbe is deep enough inside a rock, it'll be protected from ultraviolet light, which is particularly deadly.

Also, if a microbe forms a spore, it has an even better chance of survival.
spore
a reproductive cell produced by some plants and simple organisms such as ferns and mushrooms
孢子

I should explain that a spore is a dormant structure formed by some organisms for reproduction or to help in survival.
dormant
Something that is dormant is not active or growing but has the ability to be active at a later time.
蛰伏的，沉睡的，休眠的

They have a protective coating to help resist harsh environments, and they have only one or a few cells.
coating
a layer of a particular substance that covers a surface
厚厚一层

resist
to fight against something or someone that is attacking you
反抗;回击;抵抗

harsh
unpleasant, unkind, cruel, or more severe than is necessary
令人不快的;严酷的;（无端地）严厉的

Cold temperatures actually seem to help sports survive.

So a microbe that has developed a spore might even survive in rocks for millions of years.

Okay,So imagine rocks being thrown up into space because of an impact on a planet in our own solar system,

these rocks, some of which might carry organisms, might eventually encounter another planet.

Now, could they survive the entry into the planet's atmosphere?
entry
the act of entering a place or joining a particular society or organization
进入;加入，参加
a separate piece of information that is recorded in a book, computer, etc.
项目;条目;（一则）记录


entrance
a door, gate, etc. by which you can enter a building or place
入口;大门（口）;通道
the act of coming onto a stage, by an actor or dancer
（演员的）入场，登场
the act of a person coming into a room in an ordinary situation, although often because there is something noticeable about it
进入;进门
the right to enter a place
进入权;进入许可


When the, the rock gets heated from friction with the atmosphere?
friction

If the rock is big enough, the temperature inside it will remain relatively low.

And microbes might be able to survive. But then there's the impact on the planet's surface.

There it helps if the rock is smaller. If that same large rock with microbes in, it shatters in the atmosphere,
shatters
to (cause something to) break suddenly into very small pieces
（使）破碎；粉碎
to end or severely damage something
终结；严重破坏

then these smaller pieces would hit the surface with less force than if the rock state intact and microbes might survive.
intact
complete and in the original state
完整无缺的；未经触动的
not damaged or destroyed
未受损伤的

extant
现村的

Male Student: What about microbes traveling on spacecraft? Like a space probe sent to Mars, could they carry microbes?

Professor: Well, let's look at the space probe Galileo,

which was sent on a mission to Europa, one of Jupiter's moons.

It, well, Europa seems to have an ocean of water just below its icy surface, and it might be capable of supporting life.


The people in charge of the Galileo mission didn't want to probe to crash into Europa and contaminated with microbes from earth that it might have been carrying.

So at the end of the mission, they steered Galileo toward Jupiter atmosphere, where it burned up.
steered
to control the direction of a vehicle
驾驶（交通工具）；掌方向盘
If a vehicle steers, it follows a particular route or direction.
（交通工具）行驶，沿（特定路线或方向）行进
to take someone or something or make someone or something go in the direction in which you want him, her, or it
引导，带领

burn
to be hurt, damaged, or destroyed by fire or extreme heat, or to cause this to happen
（把…）烧坏;（使）烧伤;（使）烧毁;（使）晒伤;（使）烫伤
to cause emotional pain or damage to someone

给…造成感情伤害

burn up
