Listen to part of a lecture in a botany class.

Professor: Ok. During the break, some of you have some questions.

And while we were talking, I mentioned that my family owns a maple syrup business in the Massachusetts.
syrup
a very sweet, thick liquid
浓糖水，糖浆

maple syrup
a thick, sweet liquid produced from the maple tree, eaten with or used in making food
枫树汁，槭糖浆

And some of you asked, if I talk a little bit about how that works, give you a brief lesson in applied button as David put it.
applied
应用的

button
a small, usually circular object used to fasten something, for example a shirt or coat
纽扣，扣子
a small, sometimes circular object that you press to operate a device or a machine, or an area on a computer screen that looks and acts like one of these
按钮
to fasten something, usually a piece of clothing, using buttons
扣上（…的）纽扣

as sb put it
正如...所说
So, yes, ok. Well, maple sap is collected from several species of maple trees that grow primarily in the northeastern United States and southeastern Canada.

You know you don't actually get syrup from a maple tree ready to put on your pancakes.
ready
prepared and suitable for fast activity
准备好的，有准备的；现成的；方便使用的
ready to put on your pancake

What you get is sap that can be made into syrup.
sap
to make someone weaker or take away strength or an important quality from someone, especially over a long period of time
（尤指经过一段很长的时间）使伤元气；削弱；使耗尽
the liquid that carries food to all parts of a plant
（植物运送养分的）汁，液
a stupid person who can easily be tricked or persuaded to do something
笨蛋，傻瓜；容易上当的人

So first, sugar is created through photosynthesis, then it's converted into starch,
starch
a white substance that exists in large amounts in potatoes and particular grains such as rice
淀粉
a white substance from potatoes and particular grains, used to make cloth stiff
（使布料挺括的）淀粉浆
to make clothes stiff by washing them with starch
上浆（用淀粉浆硬衣服）

through vs by
through：更强调通过某种途径、过程或媒介来达成某事，通常暗示经历了一系列的步骤或过程。例如：I learned about the news through the Internet.（我通过互联网得知了这个消息。）这里强调互联网是获取消息的途径，且可能暗示经过了在网上搜索、浏览等一系列过程.
by：主要表示通过某种具体的行为、方法或工具来完成某事，强调方式方法较为直接。例如：I go to school by bus.（我坐公交车去上学。）“by bus” 直接表明了出行的方式是乘坐公交车。

and it's set for storage, usually in the roots of the tree.

Then as springtime approaches, the starch is converted back into sugar.

The sugars and starch is dissolved in this watery liquid that we call sap.
dissolved
(of a solid) to be absorbed by a liquid, especially when mixed, or (of a liquid) to absorb a solid
（使）溶解
to end an official organization or a legal arrangement
解散;解除;终止
to disappear
消失

watery
containing or filled with water
含水的;充满水的;由水组成的
(of food or drink) containing too much water and therefore weak in taste
（食物或饮料）含水过多的，味道淡的
pale or weak in colour or strength
颜色淡的；苍白无力的

liquid
a substance, such as water, that is not solid or a gas and that can be poured easily
液体
in the form of a liquid
液态的

watery liquid

And they're moved around to various places in the tree, in vessels that are referred to as phloem.
move around
通常指人或物体在空间中的无特定方向移动，或在某区域内自由活动。该短语可表示物理位移、调整位置或避免障碍，常见于描述动态场景或思维活动

vessels
a large boat or a ship
船，舰
a curved container that is used to hold liquid
器皿;容器
a tube that carries liquids such as blood through the body
（人体的）血管，脉管

phloem
the type of plant tissue that transports food from the leaves to the other parts of the plant
韧皮部（这种类型的植物组织将食物从叶子运输到植物的其他部分）

So phloem can either move sugar down toward the roots or up toward the leaves, or horizontally from one side of the tree to another.
down（adv）
in or towards a low or lower position, from a higher one
在下面；向下，朝下
moving from above and onto a surface
（坐、躺、放）下
firmly in place or into position
牢固地

horizontally
in a way that is parallel to the ground or to the bottom or top edge of something
水平地

toward（preposition）
in the direction of, or closer to someone or something
向，朝；对着

During the spring in proper weather conditions, the sap in the tree begins to rise.

And for this sap to move throughout the tree, the weather conditions have to be just right,
throughout
in every part, or during the whole period of time
在各处;自始至终

when the days become mild above freezing and the nights are still freezing.
mild
not violent, severe, or extreme
温和的；和缓的；轻微的
used to describe food or a food flavour that is not very strong
（食物或其味道）不浓烈的，淡的

freezing
adj,adv
extremely cold
极冷的
turning to ice
结冰的，冰冻的
n(noun)
the temperature (0°C) at which water becomes ice
冰点


So there needs to be an alternate, warm day and below freezing night.
alternate
to happen or exist one after the other repeatedly
轮流，交替
to make something happen or exist one after the other repeatedly
使轮流，使交替
with first one thing, then another thing, and then the first thing again
轮流的，交替的
(noun)a person or thing that can take the place of another
替代者

We're still not totally sure exactly how this promotes sap movement.

The most popular theory involves the unique structures found in maple trees.

These flowing vessels are surrounded by other cells, which in most species of trees are filled with fluid.
fluid
a substance that flows and is not solid
液体;流质
smooth and continuous
流畅的


But in the maple trees, these are mostly filled with gas. During the night, when it's cold the gas in these cells contracts, causing the cells to shrink.
contracts
to make or become shorter or narrower or generally smaller in size
（使）收缩；（使）缩小；（使）缩短
to become smaller in amount or quantity
（使）收缩，缩小

shrink
to become smaller, or to make something smaller
（使）缩小，（使）变小
to move away from someone or something because you are frightened
畏缩，退缩

This creates a low pressure in the tree. So the higher pressure in the roots pushes the sap up.

So during the night, the sap moves up into the trunk and the leaves, ok?
trunk
the thick main stem of a tree, from which its branches grow
树干

The pressure is lower in the tree than it is in the roots.

Then during the day, as the temperature rises, the gases in these cells extent,
extent

the cells heat up, so they expand creating greater pressure in the tree.
expand
to increase in size, number, or importance, or to make something increase in this way
（使）（尺寸、数量或重要性）扩大，增加；（使）膨胀

Now, the pressure is higher in the tree, moving this out in in various directions.

The important thing for collecting the sap is, since there's this pressure in the tree.

If you put a hole into the tree, it's called tapping. The sap will flow out of the tree due to this pressure.
put a hole into the tree
在树上挖个洞

tap
to hit something gently, and often repeatedly, especially making short, sharp noises
（常指连续）轻拍，轻叩，轻敲
to touch the screen of a phone, tablet computer, etc. in order to give an instruction for something to happen
轻触（手机或平板电脑等给予指令）
to get or make use of something
开发;开辟;着手利用

exploit
to use something in a way that helps you
利用;开发;发挥
to use someone or something unfairly for your own advantage
（出于私利）利用;剥削

We're often asked, you know, doesn't that hurt the trees when you drill holes in them?
drill
a tool or machine that makes holes
钻;钻床;钻机

Well, the sap you extract is only a small portion of the trees’ total production, and the hole, it heals over by the next year.
heals
to make or become well again, especially after a cut or other injury
愈合;治愈
If a bad situation or painful emotion heals, it ends or improves, and if something heals it, it makes it end or improve.
（使）（坏的情况）好转；（使）（情感上的伤口）愈合

heals over
痊愈

So a maple tree does need to be about 40 years old before it can be tapped.

But a good tree, if taking care of properly, can produce that year after year for well over 100 years.
well over

So anyway, there are several species of maples.

The most common species that's used is the sugar maple, followed by the black maple, are the most common types tapped.

There are other maple sacking being used. But they don't produce the same quality or quantity of sap.
sacking
an act of removing someone from a job
解聘，解雇
an attack on a building or town in which a lot of destruction is caused and many valuable things are stolen
洗劫
the thick, rough material used to make sacks (= large strong bags)
粗麻布，麻袋布

And there are other trees other than maples that may when drilled produce a sap.

But due to a combination of dissolved minerals, the taste of the syrup derived from their sap is not that pleasant.
derived

Now in order to make maple syrup, it takes a lot of sap about 125 to 250 liters of sap.
liters
a unit for measuring the volume of a liquid or a gas, equal to 1,000 cubic centimetres
（度量单位）升

It has to be reduced and concentrated down to about 4 liters of syrup. The color and flavor of the syrup is determined by the minerals in the sap.
reduced
to become or to make something become smaller in size, amount, degree, importance, etc.
减少；减小；降低；缩小
to heat a liquid until it becomes thicker and less in quantity; to become thicker and less in quantity in this way
（通过加热）使（液体）变稠;（液体因加热而）变稠

concentrated
having had some liquid removed
浓缩的

During the early part of the season, the sap usually runs much clearer.

But as we get later into the season, more and more dissolved minerals are found in the south and it tends to be darker.

Now, the harvester can't really control either the quality or the amount of syrup produced in any given year.
harvester
a machine for harvesting crops
收割机
a person who harvests crops
收获者，收割工人

It's all dependent on weather conditions.

Once the weather warms up, once you don't have the freezing temps at night anymore, and or the buds start opening into leaves.
temp
a person employed to work for a short period, especially in an office while another person is absent or when there is extra work
（尤指办公室的）临时雇员

buds
a small part of a plant, that develops into a flower or leaf
芽;花蕾

branch
a part of something larger
一部分;支族，旁系
one of the offices or groups that form part of a large business organization
分支机构;分部;分行;分店
one of the parts of a tree that grows out from the main trunk and has leaves, flowers, or fruit on it
树枝

trunk
the thick main stem of a tree, from which its branches grow
树干
the main part of a person's body, not including the head, legs, or arms
（人体的）躯干
a covered space at the back of a car, for storing things in
（汽车后部的）行李箱

blossom
When a tree or plant blossoms, it produces flowers before producing fruit that can be eaten.
（植物）开花
a small flower, or the small flowers on a tree or plant
花朵;花簇

fruit
the part of any plant that holds the seeds
果实
When a plant fruits, it produces fruit.
结果子

seed
a small, round or oval object produced by a plant and from which, when it is planted, a new plant can grow
种子
the cause of a feeling or situation, or the early stages of it
根源;原因;初期
（verb）to produce seeds
结（籽）
（verb）to remove the seeds from a fruit or vegetable
除去…的种子


At that point, the sap is no longer running and the harvest is over. And then you've got to convert that sap into syrup.

prolong
to make something last a longer time
延长，拖延
