Professor: We're gonna talk today about a couple of experiments related to learning infants or babies. Those areas are memory and imitation. Memory and imitation.

So you read chapter eight of your textbook, right? It deals with these topics. So I'll have some questions for you. Two studies I want to look at, they've been controversial.

That's because they show these things happening before earlier than we used to think.

So first, let's look at an experiment by Carolyn Rovee-Collier. She published an important study that looked at the cognitive abilities of infants.
cognitive

What can you tell me about Rovee-Collier's study?

Male student: She had a baby in a crib, and above the baby, there was a toy, a mobile hanging above the crib.
crib
a small bed for a baby or young child with high bars around the sides so that the child cannot fall out
幼儿床

mobile
moving or walking around freely
（自由地）活动的，走动的
a decoration or work of art that has many parts that move freely in the air, for example hanging from threads
风铃;（可随风摆动的）悬挂饰物
able to be moved from one place to another
流动的；（可）移动的



And a ribbon was tied from the mobile to the leg. So when the baby kicked, the mobile moved.
ribbon
a long, narrow strip of material used to tie things together or as a decoration
（捆扎或装饰用的）带子，丝带，缎带
a small piece of coloured material given to someone in the armed forces to show approval and admiration for their brave actions
勋带，绶带

stretch
to cause something to reach, often as far as possible, in a particular direction
伸出;伸长;拉伸
to make your body or your arms and legs straight so that they are as long as possible, in order to exercise the joints (= place where two bones are connected) after you have been in the same place or position for a long time
伸展，舒展（四肢）
to spread over a large area or distance
展开，铺开;延伸
to go as far as or past the usual limit of something
到…的限度；超过…的限度；竭尽

kick
to hit someone or something with the foot, or to move the feet and legs suddenly and violently
踢，踹

trip
a journey in which you go somewhere, usually for a short time, and come back again
（通常指短途的）旅行，行程
an occasion when you knock your foot against something and fall or lose your balance, or someone causes you to do this, when you are walking or running
绊，绊倒
journey

vessel
a large boat or a ship
船，舰
a curved container that is used to hold liquid
器皿;容器
a tube that carries liquids such as blood through the body
（人体的）血管，脉管

tube
a long cylinder made from plastic, metal, rubber, or glass, especially used for moving or containing liquids or gases
（塑料、金属、橡胶或玻璃制成的）管，管子
in biology, any hollow, cylinder-shaped structure in the body that carries air or liquid
（生物的）管状器官，管，道
a long, thin container made of soft metal or plastic that is closed at one end and has a small hole at the other, usually with a cover, used for storing thick liquids
（由软金属或塑料制成的通常有盖的，盛膏状物的）软管


Professor: there's a picture in your book.

Male student: So. Yeah. When they returned the baby to the crib weeks later, the baby kicked its leg when it saw the mobile again,

its foot wasn't tied to the mobile, but it was still kicking.

Female student: But Rovee-Collier also went on to say that was proof, evidence that the baby had remembered something, had a memory.

The baby had kept that Information that kicking moves the mobile.

Professor： Good. In those experiments, he typically had a 2.5 month old infant. The baby kicks and gets to see the mobile move.

So Rovee-Collier concludes that very young infants can remember, retain information like this. So what did critics say about her conclusion? Sara?

Female student: That it wasn't true. It wasn't real memory.

Professor: Yes. Good. Here's a distinction one critic raised.
raised
提出

This is, a researcher, a leading expert in the field, said that the baby kicking after seeing the mobile is an example of implicit memory.

Implicit memory refers to remembering Information, but not being consciously aware of remembering.

For example, many motor skills. Remember, those are skills involving movement of the body that kind of thing.
motor
a device that changes electricity or fuel into movement and makes a machine work
发动机，引擎;电动机，马达
onnected with cars or other vehicles that have engines and use roads
汽车的
to move or increase very quickly
快速移动;迅速增加
motor skills

Motor skills are forms of implicit memory, like knowing how to ride a bike. So the baby's kicking has to do with implicit memory, because it involves perception and motor skills.

The baby kicks and sees the mobile move. Now, explicit memory, on the other hand, is, well, you tell me what is it?

Female student: And that's where you can remember something, remember it consciously, you can remember what happened in the past.

That's what's usually meant by the word memory, I mean real memory.

Professor: Okay. Most researchers, they would say uh that ability in the area of explicit memory,

doesn't happen until a baby is 6 months to a year old, later than what Rovee-Collier said.

So that distinction between two different kinds of memory is important in this debate about memory in infants.

And then there's another thing, another cognitive ability they test it besides memory.

They tested imitation. That's like when a parent smiles and the baby smiles back, or the parent opens their mouth, then the baby opens its mouth.

Here the researcher was Andrew Meltzoff.

Meltzoff has done studies with babies in the first few days after they were born. What did he find in his experiments?

Male student: Yeah. He would do things like stick out his tongue and open his mouth and baby was able to imitate it.
stick

stick out
to come forward from the rest of your body, or to make part of your body do this
（使）探出，（使）伸出，（使）凸出

tongue
the large, soft piece of flesh in the mouth that you can move, and is used for tasting, speaking, etc.
舌头
the tongue of an animal, used as food
（用作食物的动物的）舌头，口条
a part of an object that is tongue-shaped, especially the piece of material that is under the laces in a shoe
舌状物（尤指鞋舌）

He thought imitation was by biologically based, I think, and um.

And that's because.. Wasn't it because they were imitating something right after they've seen it for the first time.

Professor: Yes, that's right. Meltzoff showed that in the first 3 days of life, the babies could do a full imitative response.

And he thinks it's biologically based, because this occurs before they have the opportunity to observe other people engage in these behaviors

Like sticking out the top. Here again, other experts disagree.

They say that this was just an automatic response of the baby's part, not true imitation. And true imitation doesn't happen until much later they think.

Meltzoff also tested something called deferred imitation. It's an imitation that occurs after a time delay of hours or even days.

Meltzoff show that 9 month old infants could imitate actions that they'd seen performed 24 hours earlier, like pushing a button a box that produced a beeping sound.
beeping

But some experts, like the Biagi believed that deferred imitation doesn't occur until about 18 months of age.
defer
to delay something until a later time
使延期，使延缓，推迟

So you can see that when some of these things begin, remembering, imitation isn't entirely certain yet.

But still, I do think psychologists will eventually find agreement on these issues.