Pro:So we have been discussing 16th century's native American lives and today we are gonna focus on Iroquois and Hooray peoples.

They lived in the northeastern great lakes region of North America.


Now, back then, their lives depended on the natural resources of the forests,


especially the birch tree.

The birch tree can grow in many different types of soils and it's prevalent in that area.

Now can anyone here describe the birch tree?

Stu:They are tall and white, the bark, I mean.
bark
the hard outer covering of a tree
树皮
the loud, rough noise that a dog and some other animals make
狗叫声;嗥叫声
(of a dog) to make a loud, rough noise
狗叫
to shout at someone in a forceful manner
咆哮，怒吼

Pro:Yes. The birch tree has white bark, and this tough protective outer layer of the tree, this white bark, is waterproof.

And this waterproof quality of the bark, it made it useful for making things like cooking containers, a variety of utensils.
utensils
a tool with a particular use, especially in a kitchen or house
（尤指厨房或家用的）器具，用具

And if you peel birch bark in the winter, we call it 'the winter bark',
peel
to remove the skin of fruit and vegetables
除去，剥去（水果、蔬菜的）皮
If a layer or covering peels, it slowly comes off, and if you peel a layer or covering, you remove it slowly and carefully.
（表层）脱落，剥落;剥去（表层），剥去…的壳

another layer a tougher inner layer of the tree adheres to the bark, producing a stronger material.
adheres
to stick firmly
黏附;附着

So the winter bark was used for larger utensils and containers.


Stu:I know people make utensils out of wood, but utensils out of tree bark?


Pro:Well, birch bark is pliable and very easy to bend.
pliable
A pliable substance bends easily without breaking or cracking.
（物质）易弯的，柔韧的
A pliable person is easily influenced and controlled by other people.
（人）易受影响的，顺从的

bend
to (cause to) curve
（使）弯曲
to move your body or part of your body so that it is not straight
弯腰
a curved part of something
弯曲处
in football, the curve in which a ball moves when it has been kicked in a particular way
（足球比赛中的）弧线球，香蕉球

The Native Americans would cut the bark and fold it into any shape they needed, then secure with cords until it dried.
fold
secure
positioned or fixed firmly and correctly and therefore not likely to move, fall, or break
牢靠的；牢固的

cords
(a length of) rope or string made of twisted threads
（一段）绳，索，线

They could fold the bark into many shapes.


Stu:So if they cooked in bowls made of birch bark, wouldn't that make the food taste funny?


Pro:Oh, that's one of the great things of birch bark.

The taste of the birch tree doesn't get transferred to the food.

So it was perfect for cooking containers.

But the most important use of the bark, by far, was the canoe.
canoe

Since the northeastern region of North American is interconnected by many streams and water ways, water transportation by vessels like a canoe was most essential.


The paths through the woods were often over-grown, so water travel was much faster.
over-grown

And here's what the Native Americans did.


They would peel large sheets of bark from the tree to form lightweight yet sturdy canoes.
sturdy
physically strong and solid or thick, and therefore unlikely to break or be hurt
结实的，牢固的；强壮的

lightweight
(adj)weighing only a little or less than average
较轻的，轻量的

light
(adj)not showing deep understanding or knowledge of any subject
肤浅的，理解不深的
(adj)lit by the natural light of the day
亮的，光亮的，明亮的
The bark was stretched over frames made from tree branches, stitched together and sealedwith resin.
(of colours) pale
（颜色）淡的，浅的
entertaining and easily understood, but not serious and not intended to make you think
轻松的，愉快的
not great in strength or amount
弱小的；少量的
A light meal is small and easy to digest.
（食物）少量的，简便的，清淡的
needing only a very small amount of effort
轻微的，轻松的，容易的
(verb)to start to burn or to make something start to burn
点燃，点火
(verb)to produce light that makes an object or area bright or easy to see
照亮，点亮;为…照明

You know that sticky liquid that comes out of the tree? And when it dries, it's watertight.
comes out of


One great thing of these birch bark canoes was that they could carry a large amount of cargo.

For example, a canoe weighing about 50 pounds could carry up to nine people and 250 pounds of cargo.
cargo

Stu:Wow! But how far could they drive that way?

学生:太神奇了，但是这样的话它们能走多远？

Pro:Well like I said, the northeastern region is interconnected by rivers and streams and the ocean at the coast.
interconnected
with different parts or things connected or related to each other
互相连接的；互相联系的

coast
the land next to or close to the sea
海岸;沿海地区
to move forward in a vehicle without using the engine, usually down a hill
（通常指下山时凭借惯性）滑行，下滑
thrive

The canoes allow them to travel over a vast area that today it would take a few hours to fly over.
travel over
fly over

You see, the Native Americans made canoes of all types, for travel on small streams or on large open ocean waters.

For small streams, they made narrow, maneuverable boats, while a large canoe was needed forthe ocean.
maneuverable
easy to move and direct
易操作的，容易控制的;灵活的

They could travel throughout the area only occasionally having to portage, to carry the canoeover a land short distance to another nearby stream.
portage
a place or route where a boat must be carried, especially over land between two areas of water
（两片水域之间）小船必须靠搬运才能通过的旱地（或浅滩）
他们在大部分区域内都可航行，仅仅偶尔需要陆上运输，比如说把木舟带到另一条附近的溪流。

And since the canoes were so light, this wasn't a difficult task.

Now how do you think this affected their lives?


Stu:Well if they could travel so easily over such a large area,

they could trade with people from other areas which I guess would lead them to form alliances?

Pro:Exactly.

Having an efficient means of transportation, well, that helps the Iroquois to form a federation linked by natural waterways.
afederation
a group of organizations, countries, regions, etc. that have joined together to form a larger organization or government
同盟，联盟;联邦
the act of forming a federation
结成联邦;结盟

waterways
a narrow area of water, such as a river or canal, that ships or boats can sail along
航道;水路

And this federation expanded from what is now Southern Canada all the way south to the Dalever River.


And this efficiency of birch bark canoe also made an impression on newcomers of the area.

French traders in the 17 century modeled their well they adopted the design of Yreka's birch bark canoes,

and they found they could travel great distances more than 15 kilometers a month.

Now besides the bark, Native Americans also used the wood of the birch tree. The young trees were used to support for loggings with the waterproof bark used as roofing.
the activity of cutting down trees in order to use their wood
logging
伐木
roofing
material used for making roofs
盖屋顶的材料，屋面材料

Branches were folded into snow shoes and the Native American people were all adept to running very fast over the snow in these birch brand snow shoes which if you ever tried walking in snow shoes you know wasn't easy.
branch
树枝则被折叠后做成踏雪靴而且他们都可以非常娴熟的在雪上跑得很快，如果你有机会穿上雪鞋的话就会发现在雪上走并不是那么简单的事情。