Narrator:Listen to part of a lecture in a class on theater history. The professor is discussing the theater of nineteenth-century France.

Professor:The nineteenth century was the time that saw what we call “realism” develop in the European theater. Uh, to understand this, though, we first need to look at an earlier form of drama known as the “well-made play,” which, basically, was a pattern for constructing plays—plays that, um, beginning with some early nineteenth-century comedies in France, proved very successful commercially. The dramatic devices used here weren’t actually anything new—they’d been around for centuries. But the formula for a well-made play required that certain of these elements be included, in a particular order, and—most importantly—that everything in the play be logically connected. In fact, some of these playwrights would start by writing the end of a play and work backward toward the beginning, just to make sure each event led logically from what had gone before.
formula
a standard or accepted way of doing or making something
惯例；配方；处方
a series of letters and symbols that show what substances make up a particular chemical element or compound
分子式

around for
持续时间

playwrights
a person who writes plays
剧作家


backward
not advanced
落后的；迟缓的；愚钝的
towards the direction that is the opposite to the one in which you are facing
向后的；与面对方向相反的


OK, so what are the necessary elements of a well-made play? Well, uh, the first is logical exposition.
exposition
a clear and full explanation of an idea or theory
清楚详尽的解释；详细阐述

Exposition is whatever background information you have to reveal to the audience so they’ll understand what’s going on. Before this time, exposition might have come from actors simply giving speeches. Uh, someone might walk out on stage and say, “In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,” and then tell all about the feuding families of Romeo and Juliet. But for the well-made play, even the exposition had to be logical … believable. So, for example, uh, you might have two servants gossiping as they’re cleaning the house, and one says, “Oh, what a shame the master’s son is still not married.” And the other might mention a rumor about a mysterious gentleman who’s just moved into town with his beautiful daughter. These comments are part of the play’s logical exposition.
fair
美丽的
fairly
more than average, but less than very
相当地；一定程度地
used to emphasize figurative expressions that describe what people or objects are doing
（用于强调比喻性表述）简直
rumor
an unofficial interesting story or piece of news that might be true or invented, and quickly spreads from person to person
流言;谣传;传闻

feuding
an argument that has existed for a long time between two people or groups, causing a lot of anger or violence
夙怨;世仇;长期争斗
to have a feud with someone
（与…）长期斗争;结世仇


The next key element of a well-made play is referred to as “the inciting incident.” After we have the background information, we need a key moment that gets things moving, that really makes the audience interested in what happens to the characters we just heard about. So, for example, after the two servants reveal all this background information, we meet the young man, just as he first lays eyes on the beautiful young woman and immediately falls in love. This is the inciting incident. It sets off the plot of the play.
inciting
to encourage someone to do or feel something unpleasant or violent
鼓动，煽动

incident
an event that is either unpleasant or unusual
（不愉快或不寻常的）事件

gossip
conversation or reports about other people's private lives that might be unkind, disapproving, or not true
（有关别人隐私的）流言蜚语，闲言碎语，闲聊
someone who enjoys talking about other people and their private lives
爱说长道短的人;喜欢散布流言蜚语的人
to talk about other people's private lives
（对别人的隐私）说长道短，传播流言蜚语

sets off
to start a journey
出发，启程

Now the plot of a well-made play is usually driven by secrets—uh, things that the audience knows, but the characters often don’t know. So for example, the audience learns through a letter or through someone else’s conversation who this mysterious gentleman is and why he left the town many years before. But the young man doesn’t know about this … and the woman doesn’t understand the ancient connection between her family and his.

And before the secrets are revealed to the main characters, the plot of the play proceeds as a series of sort of up-and-down moments. For example, the woman first appears not to even notice the young man, and it seems to him like the end of the world. But then he learns that she actually wants to meet him too, so life is wonderful. Then if he tries to talk with her, maybe her father gets furious, for no apparent reason. So they can’t see each other. But just as the young man has almost lost all hope, he finds out … well, you get the idea—the reversals of fortune continue, increasing the audience’s tension and excitement, making them wonder if everything’s going to come out OK or not.
proceed
furious
extremely angry
极其生气的，怒不可遏的
using a lot of effort or strength
强烈的；激烈的

up-and-down

Next comes an element known as the obligatory scene.
obligatory
If something is obligatory, you must do it because of a rule or law, etc.
（根据规定、法律等）必须履行的，强制性的，有义务的
expected because it usually happens
（因为常发生而）必然的，预料之中的;惯常的

It’s uh, it’s a scene, a moment in which all the secrets are revealed and generally things turn out well for the hero and others we care about—a happy ending of some sort. This became so popular that a playwright almost had to include it in every play, which is why it’s called the obligatory scene.

And that’s followed by the final dramatic element …

The denouement or the resolution, when all the loose ends have to be tied up in a logical way. Remember, the obligatory scene gives the audience emotional pleasure, but the denouement offers the audience a logical conclusion. That’s the subtle distinction we need to try very hard to keep in mind.

So, as I said, the well-made play—this form of playwriting—became the basis for realism in drama and for a lot of very popular nineteenth-century plays—and also a pattern we find in the plots of many later plays and even movies that we see today.

