crabs are primitive creatures with a simple nervous system. When slowly steam alive, they instinctively grab and stuff ginger shreds into their mouths-not out of hunger, but because they feel distressed and react on instinct, as if eating might ease they discomfort.
out of
1、空间关系
An apple rolled out of the bag
2、because of
I asked out of curiosty.
3、缺乏状态
We are out of milk.
4、材料来源，用...制成
make a building out of wood
5、比例关系
Nine out of ten people.
6、固定短语
stand out of the pack
run out of
talk sb out of sth
use up
主动用完
run out of
即将耗尽
be out of
即将耗尽的状态
we are running out of time.

shreds
a very small amount of something
极少量，微量

distressed
upset or worried
烦乱的，焦虑的，忧虑的
having problems because of having too little money
拮据的，经济困难的
a distressed material has been treated to make it look as if it has been used for a long time
仿古磨损的，仿旧的

ease
to make or become less severe, difficult, unpleasant, painful, etc.
减轻；减低；缓解
to move or to make something move slowly and carefully in a particular direction or into a particular position
（使）小心缓慢地移动;（使）缓缓移动

Narrator: Listen to part of a lecture in a biology class.

FEMALE PROFESSOR: So, that’s how elephants use infrasound… Now let's talk about the other end of the acoustical spectrum—sound that's too high for humans to hear: ultrasound. Ultrasound is used by many animals that detect—and, some of them, send out—very high-frequency sounds. So, what's a good example?Yes, Carol?
infrasound
次声波

acoustical
relating to sound or hearing
声音的;听觉的
used to refer to a musical instrument that is not made louder by electrical equipment
（乐器）原声的，自然声的，不用电传音的
the way in which the structure of a building or room affects the qualities of musical or spoken sound
（建筑物、房间的）传音效果，音响效果

ultrasound
special sound waves used in such processes as examining organs inside the body and directing the route of submarines
超声波（用于人体器官检查、潜艇导航等）
  
FEMALE STUDENT: Well, bats—since they're all blind, bats have to use sound for—uh, y'know—to keep from flying into things.



FEMALE PROFESSOR: That’s echolocation. Echolocation is pretty self-explanatory: Using echoes—reflected sound waves—to locate things… As Carol said, bats use it for navigation and orientation… and what else? Mike?
echolocation
a process in which animals, for example bats (= small animals with wings that fly at night), find their way in the dark by producing sound waves that echo (= are heard again) when they are reflected off an object
（蝙蝠等动物的）回声定位

self-explanatory
giving an explanation about something
解释的;说明的
easily understood from the information already given and not needing further explanation
无需解释的；不释自明的

MALE STUDENT: Well, finding food is always important—and, uh, I guess, not becoming food for other animals…
FEMALE PROFESSOR: Right on both counts. Avoiding other predators—and locating prey—uh, typically insects that fly around at night.  Now, before I go on, let me just respond to something Carol was saying—this idea that bats are blind… actually, there are some species of bats—the ones that don't use echolocation—that do rely on their vision for navigation but, it is true that, for many bats, their vision is too weak to count on.
predators
prey

OK, so: quick summary of how echolocation works. The bat emits these ultrasonic pulses—very high-pitched sound waves that we can't hear—and then: they analyze the echoes—how the waves bounce back. Uh, here, let me finish this diagram I started before class…So the bat sends out these pulses—very focused bursts of sound, and echoes bounce back…  Y'know, I don't think I need to draw on the echoes. Your-your reading assignment for the next class—it has a diagram that shows this very clearly—
emit

pluses

pitch
an area painted with lines for playing particular sports, especially football
运动场地;（尤指）足球场
the level or degree of something
水平;程度

high-pitched
A voice that is high-pitched is higher than usual.
声调高的，尖声的
A high-pitched noise is high and sometimes also loud or unpleasant.
（噪声）尖锐恼人的

diagram
a simple plan that represents a machine, system, or idea, etc., often drawn to explain how it works
图，图解，示意图

send out

bursts of sound
突然的爆发或阵发

very burst of sound

so anyway as I was saying… By analyzing these echoes, the bat can determine, say, if there's a wall in a cave that it needs to avoid… and—how far away it is. Another thing it uses ultrasound to detect, is the size and shape of objects. For example, one echo they’d quickly identify is the one they associate with a moth, which is common prey for a bat—particularly, a moth beating its wings.
cave
a large hole in the side of a hill, cliff, or mountain, or one that is underground
洞穴;山洞;地洞

moth
an insect with wings that is similar to a butterfly, usually flies at night, and is attracted to light
蛾，飞蛾

beating
wings

moth
an insect with wings that is similar to a butterfly, usually flies at night, and is attracted to light
蛾，飞蛾

However, moths happen to have a major advantage over most other insects: they can detect ultrasound. This means that, when a bat approaches, the moth can detect the bat's presence… so it has time to escape to safety… or else they can just remain motionless—since, um, when they stop beating their wings, they’d be much harder for the bat to distinguish from, oh, a-a leaf… or-or some other object… 
motionless

Now, we've tended to underestimate just how sophisticated the abilities of animals that use ultrasound are. In fact, we kind of assumed that they were filtering a lot out—uh, the way a sophisticated radar system can ignore echoes from stationary objects on the ground. Radar does this to remove “ground clutter”—information about, um, hills or buildings that it doesn’t need.
tend

underestimate
to fail to guess or understand the real cost, size, difficulty, etc. of something
低估；（对…）估计不足

stationary
not moving, or not changing
静止的；不变的；稳定的

radar
a system that uses radio waves to find the position of objects that cannot be seen
雷达

clutter
(a lot of objects in) a state of being untidy
杂乱，凌乱;杂乱的东西

But bats—we thought they were filtering out this kind of information because they simply couldn't analyze it. But it looks as if we were wrong. Recently, there was this experiment with trees and a specific species of bats—a bat called the lesser spear-nosed bat.
filter out
滤除

spear
a weapon consisting of a pole with a sharp, usually metal, point at one end, that is either thrown or held in the hand
矛;枪;梭镖


Now a tree should be a huge acoustical challenge for a bat, right? I mean, it's got all kinds of surfaces, with different shapes and angles… So, well, the echoes from a tree are going to be a mass of chaotic acoustic reflections, right? Not like the echo from a moth.
acoustical
“声学的” 或 “与声学相关的”
got all kind of surfaces
got, 拥有

mass

chaotic
in a state of chaos
混乱的;毫无秩序的
chaos
a state of total confusion with no order
混乱;无秩序状态

So, we thought, for a long time, that bats stopped their evaluation at simply “that's a tree.” Yet, it turns out that-that bats, or at least this particular species, can not only tell that it’s a tree, but can also distinguish between, say, a pine tree and a deciduous tree—like, a maple, or an oak tree: just by their leaves—an-and when I say “leaves,” I mean pine needles, too. Any ideas on how it would know that?
MALE STUDENT: Well… like with the moth—could it be their shape?
evaluation
the process of judging or calculating the quality, importance, amount, or value of something
评估

pine
an evergreen tree (= one that never loses its leaves) that grows in cooler areas of the world
松树

deciduous
A deciduous tree loses its leaves in autumn and grows new ones in the spring.
（树木）落叶的

FEMALE PROFESSOR: You're on the right track. It’s actually the echo of all the leaves—as a whole—that matters. Now, think: A pine tree—with all those little, densely packed needles… those produce a large number of faint reflections in wh-what's called a-a “smooth” echo—
densely packed

needles
the curved shape of a graph (= a picture showing how two sets of information are related) that shows a wave (= the pattern in which some types of energy move)
a thin metal pin, used in sewing, that is pointed at one end and has a hole called an eye at the other end for thread
针，缝衣针

faint


the waveform is very even … but an oak—which has fewer but bigger leaves with stronger reflections—produces a jagged waveform—or what we call a “rough” echo. And these bats can distinguish between the two—and not just with trees, but with any echo that comes in a smooth or rough shape.
waveform
the curved shape of a graph (= a picture showing how two sets of information are related) that shows a wave (= the pattern in which some types of energy move)
波形

jagged
rough and with sharp points
有尖突的；锯齿状的；参差不齐的

