Pro:Last time, we started to talk about the glaciers,
glaciers
and how these masses less forms from crystallized snow, and some of you were amazed at how huge some of the these glaciers are.
masses
having an effect on or involving a large number of people or forming a large amount
大量的；大规模的；大批的
a large amount of something that has no particular shape or arrangement
大量;大批;众多
a mass of rubble
a solid lump with no clear shape
团，块，堆
the amount of matter in any solid object or in any volume of liquid or gas
质量

crystallized
soaked (= left to become completely wet) in melted sugar that has then become hard
裹糖的，糖水浸过的
glaciers
a large mass of ice that moves slowly
冰川，冰河

Now, even though it may be difficult to understand how a huge mass less can move or flow, in another word for it, it's really known that the secret that the glaciers flow, because of gravity.
But how they flow, and why they flow needs some explaining.

Now, the first type of the glaciers flow is called: basal slip.
basal
forming the bottom layer of something
基部的，基座的，基底的

slip
grasp
to quickly take something in your hand(s) and hold it firmly
抓紧，握紧
If you grasp an opportunity, you take it eagerly.
急忙抓住，毫不犹豫地把握住（机会）
to understand something, especially something difficult
理解，领悟，明白（尤指费解之事）
the act of holding onto someone or something
紧抓，紧握，抓牢
the ability to get, achieve, or keep something
力所能及;掌握，把握

aspire
aspire to work for google
inspire
resilient

Basal slip or its sliding as it's often called, basically refers to the slipping or sliding of glacier across bedrock, actually across the thin layer of water, on top of the bedrock.
sliding
to (cause to) move easily and without interruption over a surface
（使）滑动，（使）滑行
to go into a worse state, often through lack of control or care
下滑；衰落；逐渐陷入
a sudden movement of a large mass of mud (= wet earth) or rock down a hill
山崩，岩崩；崩塌
a structure for children to play on which has a slope for them to slide down and usually a set of steps leading up to the slope
滑梯

bedrock
the hard area of rock in the ground that holds up the loose soil above
基岩
the main principles on which something is based
基础

So, this process shouldn't be too hard to imagine.

What happens is that the ice of the base of the glacier is under gradual depression-the depression coming from the weights of the overlaying ice.
depression

And you probably know that the under pressure, the melting temperature of water as the ice I mean, is reduced.

So, ice at the basis of glacier melts, even though it's below zero degree thaws.
thaws
to (cause to) change from a solid, frozen state to a liquid or soft one, because of an increase in temperature
（使）融化;（使）解冻

And this results in thin layer of water between the glacier and ground.
This layer of water reduces friction is like a lubricant.
lubricant
a liquid such as oil that is used to make the parts of an engine move easily together, or a substance put on any surface to help it move more easily against another one
润滑油;润滑剂

And it allows the glacier to slat or slip over the bedrock.
slat
a thin, narrow piece of wood, plastic, or metal used to make floors, furniture, window coverings, etc.
板条

Ok, now the next type movement we will talk about is called: deformation.
deformation
the action of spoiling the usual and true shape of something, or a change in its usual and true shape
变形，扭曲

You already known that the ice brittle, if you hited with hammer, it will shatterly glass.
brittle
delicate and easily broken
易碎的，脆的
shatter
to (cause something to) break suddenly into very small pieces
（使）破碎；粉碎
shuffle
to walk by pulling your feet slowly along the ground rather than lifting them
拖着脚走，曳足而行

shuttle
a vehicle or aircraft that travels regularly between two places
穿梭运行的车辆，接驳车;穿梭航班

But ice also plastic, you can change the shapes without breaking.
plastic
soft enough to be changed into a new shape
可塑的，塑性的

If you leave, for example, a bar of ice supported only at one end, they end, they unsupported end will deform under its own way due-kind of flatten out one in to get stored it deformed it.
Think deformation a very slow oozing.
flatten
to become level or cause something to become level
（使）变平，把…弄平

oozing
to flow slowly out of something through a small opening, or to slowly produce a thick sticky liquid
渗出;冒出;分泌出

Depending on the stresses on the glacier, the ice crystal was in the re-organized.
stresses

And during this re-organization the ice crystal re-allied in a way that allows them to slide pass each other.
re-organization
the act of organizing something again in order to improve it
重新组织;改组;整顿

crystal
水晶

And so the glacier oozes down hill without any ice actually melting.
Now, there are a couple of the factors that affects the amounts of deformation that takes place or the speed of the glaciers movement for example.
Deformation is more likely to occur the thicker the ices, because at the gravity of the weight its ice.
And temperature also plays part here, in that does not moves easily.

As the ice that is close to the mounting points, in fact, it is not to different from… the weight oil is, thicker at the lower temperature.
mounting
to gradually increase, rise, or get bigger
增加；增长；上升
to organize and begin an activity or event
组织；发动；开展；举行
to fix something to a wall, in a frame, etc., so that it can be looked at or used
安放，安装；镶嵌；裱贴

boost
to increase or improve something
改善；提高；增强；推动

So, if you had a glacier in the slightly warmer region, it will flow faster than the glacier in the cooler region.
Ok, um… Now, let's touch briefly on extension and compression.


You textbook includes this as type as a particular type of glacier movement, but you will see that these are … cause many textbooks that omitted as type of movement as included.
And I might not include right now, if there won't in your textbooks.
But, basically, the upper parts of the glacier have less pressure on them.
So, they don't deform easily, they tend to be more brittle.

And crevasses can form in this upper layer of glacier.
crevasses
a very deep crack in the thick ice of a glacier (= moving mass of ice)
（冰川的）裂缝，裂隙

to press something firmly, especially from all sides in order to change its shape, reduce its size, or remove liquid from it
（尤指从各方面）挤压，捏，挤，榨

When the glacier comes into contact with bedrock walls or the otherwise under some kinds of stresses, but can deform quickly enough.
So, the ice would expand or constrict, and that can cause be crack to form in the surface of the layer of ice, and that brittle the surface ice moving, is sometimes considered a type of glacier movement depending on which source you can thaw to.
crack
to break something so that it does not separate, but very thin lines appear on its surface, or to become broken in this way
（使）破裂；（使）裂开；（使）产生裂纹

constrict
to become tighter and narrower, or to make something become tighter and narrower
压紧；压缩；（使）收缩
to limit an action or behaviour
限制；约束；束缚

brittle
Now, as you probably know, glaciers generally move really slowly.
But sometimes, they experience surges, and during these surges, in some places, they can move its speeds as high as 7000 meters per year.
Now, a speed like that are pretty unusual, 100 of times faster than the regular movement of glaciers, but you can actually see glacier move during these surges, though it is rare.