Narrator: Listen to part of a lecture in a theater class.
MALE PROFESSOR: As we have seen, the second half of the eighteenth century was an exciting time in Europe. It was not only an age of great invention, but social changes also led to a rise in all sorts of entertainments, from reading to museums to travel. And finding himself in the middle of this excitement was an accomplished French painter named Philippe Jacques de Loutherbourg.
the second half of
refers to the latter portion of a whole, typically a period of time like a year, a financial year, or a day, and it generally encompasses the period from the midpoint to the end of that entity
latter
near or towards the end of something
后半程的，靠后的，末尾的

in the middle of this excitement
在这种兴奋中

Loutherbourg arrived in England in 1771 and immediately went to work as a set designer at the famous Drury Lane Theatre in London. From his first shows Loutherbourg showed a knack for imagination in stage design, all in the interest of creating illusions that allowed the audience to suspend disbelief completely.  He accomplished this by giving the stage a greater feeling of depth, which he did by cutting up some of the rigid background scenery and placing it at various angles and distances from the audience.
knack
a skill or an ability to do something easily and well
技能;本领;技巧
knack for
在...方面的本领
all in the interest of
为了...的利益
illusions
an idea or belief that is not true
幻觉，幻想
something that is not really what it seems to be
假象，错觉

suspend
to stop something from being active, either temporarily or permanently
停止，暂停，中止
If someone is suspended from work, school, etc., they are temporarily not allowed to work, go to school, or take part in an activity because of having done something wrong.
（因犯错而）暂令停职；暂令停学；暂令停止参加活动

disbelief
the feeling of not being able to believe that something is true or real
不相信，怀疑

rigid
stiff or fixed; not able to be bent or moved
僵硬的；固定的；不能弯曲的
not able to be changed or persuaded
顽固的;不易改变的

concerte
a very hard building material made by mixing together cement, sand, small stones, and water
混凝土
clear and certain, or real and existing in a form that can be seen or felt
确定的，确实的；具体的，有形的，实在的

scene
a part of a play or film in which the action stays in one place for a continuous period of time
场景，场面;镜头
a view or picture of a place, event, or activity
情景，场景，场面
a place where an unpleasant event has happened
（不愉快事件发生的）现场，地点
a particular area of activity and all the people or things connected with it
活动领域，圈子，界
an expression of great anger or similar feelings, often between two people, or an occasion when this happens
发脾气，吵闹

intense
intensity
the quality of being felt strongly or having a very strong effect
强烈；剧烈

formality
something that has to be done but has no real importance
礼节；俗套；例行公事
the quality of being suitable for serious or official occasions
庄重，正规，适合正式场合

formal
informal

scenery
the general appearance of the natural environment, especially when it is beautiful
风景，景色
the large painted pictures used on a theatre stage to represent the place where the action is
（剧院的）舞台布景

Another realistic touch was using three-dimensional objects on the set, like rocks and bushes, as opposed to two-dimensional painted scenery. He also paid much more attention to lighting and sound than had been done before.
touch
to put your hand or another part of your body lightly onto and off something or someone
碰，触摸
(of two or more things) to be so close together that there is no space between; to be in contact
（两个或两个以上的物品）接触
to harm someone, or use or damage something
伤害（某人）；使用（某物）；破坏（某物）
to influence someone or something emotionally, or cause feelings of sympathy in someone
触动，感动
a small amount
少许

iron
a chemical element that is a common greyish-coloured metal. It is strong, used in making steel, and exists in very small amounts in blood.
铁
very strong physically, mentally, or emotionally
极强壮的；强硬坚定的

irony
a situation in which something which was intended to have a particular result has the opposite or a very different result
具有讽刺意味的情况；出乎意料的情况；令人啼笑皆非的事情

ironic
interesting, strange, or funny because of being very different from what you would usually expect
具有讽刺意味的；出乎意料的；令人啼笑皆非的

set designer

Now, these sets were so elaborate that many people attended the theater more for them than for the actors or the story. At the time people were wild for travel and for experiencing new places, but not everyone could afford it. Loutherbourg outdid himself, however, with a show that he set up in his own home. He called it the Eidophusikon.
elaborate
containing a lot of careful detail or many detailed parts
精心计划（或制作）的；详尽的；复杂的

outdid
to be, or do something, better than someone else
胜过，超越；优于

“Eidophusikon” means something like “representation of nature”-- and that’s exactly what he intended to do—create realistic, moving scenes that changed before the audience’s eyes. In this he synthesized all his tricks from Drury Lane, mechanical motion, sound, light, other special effects to create, if you will, an early multi-media production.
synthesized
to produce a substance by a chemical reaction in plants or animals
合成
tricks
an action that is intended to deceive, either as a way of cheating someone, or as a joke or form of entertainment
骗局;诡计;恶作剧
an effective or quick way of doing something
诀窍，秘诀；技巧

lane
a narrow road in the countryside or in a town
乡间小路；小巷，小街，胡同
a special strip of a road, sports track, or swimming pool that is used to keep vehicles or competitors separate
车道；（田径比赛的）跑道；泳道
a route across the sea or through the air that ships or aircraft regularly sail or fly along
航道，航线

mechanical
operated by a machine, or connected with machines or their parts
机械的;机械部件的
without thinking about what you are doing, especially because you do something often
习惯性的

manufacture
to produce goods in large numbers, usually in a factory using machines
（通常指工厂利用机械大量）制造，（批量）生产
to invent something, such as an excuse or story, in order to deceive someone
捏造;编造;虚构
the process of producing goods
生产

mechanical motion
机械运动

The Eidophusikon was Loutherbourg’s attempt to release painting from the constraints of the picture frame. After all, even the most action-filled, exciting painting can represent only one moment in time and any illusion of movement is gone after the first glance. But Loutherbourg, like other contemporary painters, wanted to add the dimension of time to his paintings.
release ... from 

constraint(法律约束)
something that controls what you do by keeping you within particular limits
限制；束缚；约束
unnatural behaviour that is sometimes the result of forcing yourself to act in a particular way
拘束；局促


constrict(隐形约束)
to limit the movements or actions of someone, or to limit something and reduce its size or prevent it from increasing
限制；限定；妨碍

restrict

restraint

after all
despite earlier problems or doubts
终究
used to add information that shows that what you have just said is true
毕竟

gone
If something is gone, there is none of it left.
用完的，用光的

contemporary
existing or happening now, and therefore seeming modern
当代的;现代的
belonging to the same period, or to a stated period in the past
同时期的，同时代的
someone living during the same period as someone else
同时代的人
a person who is of the same age as you
同龄人，同辈

You know, the popular thinking is that Loutherbourg was influenced by landscape painting, but why can't we say that the Eidophusikon actually influenced the painters? At the very least we have to consider that it was more…it was more of a mutual thing… We know, for example, that the important English landscape painter Thomas Gainsborough attended almost all of the early performances, and his later paintings are notable for their increased color and dynamic use of light.
landscape
a large area of land, especially in relation to its appearance
乡间，野外;（尤指乡村的）风景，景色
a view or picture of the countryside, or the art of making such pictures
乡村风景;乡村风景画;乡村风景绘画

the action of entertaining other people by dancing, singing, acting, or playing music
表演，演出
mutual
(of two or more people or groups) feeling the same emotion, or doing the same thing to or for each other
相互的，彼此的;共同的，共有的
mature

performances
how well a person, machine, etc. does a piece of work or an activity
工作情况；业绩；表现；工作性能
the action of entertaining other people by dancing, singing, acting, or playing music
表演，演出

Loutherbourg’s influence on the theater, though... he was incredibly influential. The way he brought together design and lighting and sound as a unified feature of the stage can easily be seen in English theater's subsequent emphasis on lighting and motion.
bring together
使团结或和解‌
‌召集或集合

bring together as

subsequent
happening after something else
随后的，接着的

Now, the Eidophusikon stage was actually a box, a few meters wide, a couple meters tall, and a couple meters deep; that is, the action took place within this box. This was much smaller of course than the usual stage, but it also allowed Loutherbourg to concentrate the lighting to better effect.
Also, the audience was in the dark, which wouldn’t be a common feature of the theater until 100 years later. The show consisted of a series of scenes, for example, a view of London from sunrise that changes as the day moves on.Mechanical figures, such as cattle, moved across the scene and ships sailed along the river.
a few meter
几米
a couple meter
cattle

But what really got people was the attention to detail, much like his work at Drury Lane. So, for example, he painted very realistic ships and varied their size depending on their distance from the audience. Small boats moved more quickly across the foreground than larger ones did that were closer to the horizon. Other effects, like waves, were also very convincing—they reflected sunlight or moonlight depending on the time of day or night--even the colors changed as they would in nature.
foreground
the people, objects, countryside, etc. in a picture or photograph that seem nearest to you and form its main part
（图片或照片的）前景
the area that is of most importance and activity, or that people pay attention to
重要位置；瞩目地位

horizon
the line at the farthest place that you can see, where the sky seems to touch the land or sea
地平线

realistic
accepting things as they are in fact and not making decisions based on unlikely hopes for the future
现实的;实事求是的;务实的
Sound and light were important in making his productions realistic. He used a great number of lamps and he was able to change colors of light by using variously colored pieces of glass to create effects like passing clouds that subtly change in color. Furthermore, he used effects to make patterns of shadow and light rather than using the uniform lighting that was common at the time. And many of the sound effects he pioneered are still in use today, like creating thunder by pulling on one of the corners of a thin copper sheet.
lamps
a device for giving light, especially one that has a covering or is contained within something
（尤指带灯罩的）灯
any of various devices that produce particular types of light
照明设备，照射器

subtly
in a way that is small and difficult to notice or describe, but important
微妙地，精妙地;巧妙地

copper
a chemical element that is a reddish-brown metal, used especially for making wire and coins
铜

One of his most popular scenes was of a storm… And there’s a story that on one occasion an actual storm passed overhead during the show, and some people went outside and they claimed Loutherbourg’s thunder was actually better than the real thunder!
thunder
闪电
on one occasion
有一次
on ...occasion