Narrator: Listen to part of a lecture in an environmental science class.
FEMALE PROFESSOR: So, since we’re on the topic of global climate change and its effects … in Alaska, in the northern arctic part of Alaska, over the last, oh … 30 years or so, temperatures have increased about half a degree Celsius per decade. And, scientists have noticed that there’s been a change in surface vegetation during this time—shrubs are increasing in the tundra. Tundra is flat land, with very little vegetation.
arctic
the very cold area around the North Pole
北极，北极地区

Celsius
(of) a measurement of temperature on a standard in which 0° is the temperature at which water freezes, and 100° the temperature at which it boils
摄氏温度

decade
a period of ten years, especially a period such as 2010 to 2019
十年;年代

vegetation
plants in general, or plants that are found in a particular area
（总称）植物；植被，植物群落

shrubs
a large plant with a rounded shape formed from many small branches growing either directly from the ground or from a hard stem, grown in gardens
灌木

tundra
(part of) the very large area of land in North Asia, North America, and northern Europe where, because it is cold, trees do not grow and ground below the surface is permanently frozen
冻原带，苔原带

Just a few species of plants grow there because the temperature’s very cold and there’s not much precipitation. And because of the cold temperatures, tundra has two layers. The top layer, which is called the active layer, is frozen in the winter and spring, but thaws in the summer. Beneath this active layer is a second layer called permafrost, which is frozen all year round and is impermeable to water.
FEMALE STUDENT: So, because of the permafrost, none of the plants that grow there can have deep roots, can they?
precipitation
water that falls from the clouds towards the ground, especially as rain or snow
（尤指雨或雪的）降落;降水
permafrost
an area of land that is permanently frozen below the surface
永冻层，永冻土层
thaws
to (cause to) change from a solid, frozen state to a liquid or soft one, because of an increase in temperature
（使）融化;（使）解冻
impermeable
not allowing liquid or gas to go through
不可渗透的;不透气的

FEMALE PROFESSOR: No, and that's one of the reasons that shrubs survive in the arctic. Shrubs are little bushes; they’re not tall, and being low to the ground protects them from the cold and wind. And their roots don’t grow very deep, so the permafrost doesn’t interfere with their growth. OK? Now, since the temperatures have been increasing in arctic Alaska, the growth of shrubs has increased. And this has presented climate scientists with a puzzle.
interfere
to involve yourself in a situation when your involvement is not wanted or is not helpful
干涉，干预

MALE STUDENT: Um, I'm sorry, when you say the growth of shrubs has increased … um, do you mean that the shrubs are bigger, or that there are more shrubs?
FEMALE PROFESSOR: Good question. And the answer is “both.” The size of the shrubs has increased and shrub cover has spread to what was previously shrub-free tundra. OK. So, what's the puzzle—warmer temperatures should lead to increased vegetation growth, right? Well, the connection’s not so simple.
shrub-free

The temperature increase has occurred during the winter and spring—not during the summer. But, the increase in shrubs has occurred in the summer. So, how can increased temperatures in the winter and spring result in increased shrub growth in the summer?  Well, it may be biological processes that occur in the soil in the winter that cause increased shrub growth in the summer. And, here’s how: there are microbes, microscopic organisms that live in the soil.
soil
the material on the surface of the ground in which plants grow
泥土，土壤

microscopic
very small and only able to be seen with a microscope
极小的;需要用显微镜才可看见的
extremely small
极小的，微小的

These microbes enable the soil to have more nitrogen, which plants need to live, and they remain quite active during the winter. There are two reasons for this. First, they live in the active layer which, remember, contains water that doesn’t penetrate the permafrost.
nitrogen
a chemical element that is a gas with no colour or taste, forms most of the earth's atmosphere, and is a part of all living things
氮（气）

frost
the thin, white layer of ice that forms when the air temperature is below the freezing point of water, especially outside at night
霜

penetrate
to move into or through something
穿透；进入；渗入

Second, most of the precipitation in the arctic is in the form of snow. And the snow which blankets the ground in the winter actually has an insulating effect on the soil beneath it … and it allows the temperature of the soil to remain warm enough for microbes to remain active.So there’s been increased nutrient production in the winter, and that’s what’s responsible for the growth of shrubs in the summer and their spread to new areas of the tundra. Areas with more nutrients are the areas with the largest increase in shrubs.
blankets
to cover something completely with a thick layer
以厚层覆盖

insulating
to cover and surround something with a material or substance in order to stop heat, sound, or electricity from escaping or entering
使隔热；使隔音；使绝缘

nutrient
any substance that plants or animals need in order to live and grow
养分;营养物，滋养物

FEMALE STUDENT: But what about runoff in the spring, when the snow finally melts? Won't the nutrients get washed away? Spring thaw always washes away soil, doesn’t it?
runoff
to leave somewhere or someone suddenly
突然跑掉;迅速离开

peak
the highest, strongest, or best point, value, or level of skill
最高点，高峰
Peak times are the times when most people are using or doing something.
高峰的（时期）


FEMALE PROFESSOR: Well, much of the soil is usually still frozen during peak runoff. And the nutrients are deep down in the active layer anyway—not high up, near the surface, which is the part of the active layer most affected by runoff. But, as I was about to say, there’s more to the story.  The tundra is windy, and as snow is blown across the tundra it’s caught by shrubs …and deep snowdrifts often form around shrubs.
runoff

windy
with a lot of wind
刮风的;多风的

blown
to move and make currents of air, or to be moved or make something move on a current of air
吹;吹动;被吹走

snowdrifts
a large pile of snow formed by the wind
（被风吹成的）雪堆

caught
complement
to make something else seem better or more attractive when combining with it
补充；补足；使完善；为…增色

passive
The passive form of a verb is being used when the grammatical subject is the person or thing that experiences the effect of an action, rather than the person or thing that causes the effect.
被动语态的
not acting to influence or change a situation; allowing other people to be in control
被动的，消极的；顺从的

participle
the form of a verb that in English usually ends in "ed" or "ing" and is used as an adjective
分词

And we’ve already mentioned the insulating effects of snow … So that extra warmth means even more microbial activity, which means even more food for the shrubs, which means even more shrubs—and more snow around them, etc. It’s a circle, a loop. And because of this loop, which is promoted by warmer temperatures in the winter and spring … well, it looks like the tundra may be turning into shrubland.
microbial
relating to microbes (= very small living things, especially ones that cause disease)
微生物的

FEMALE STUDENT: But will it be long-term? I mean, maybe the shrubs will be abundant for a few years, and then it’ll change back to tundra.
abundant
more than enough
大量的；充足的；丰富的


FEMALE PROFESSOR: Well, shrub expansion has occurred in other environments, like semiarid grassland and tall grass prairies. And shrub expansion in these environments does seem to persist … almost to the point of causing a shift. Once it’s established, shrubland thrives. Particularly in the arctic, because arctic shrubs are good at taking advantage of increased nutrients in the soil—better than other arctic plants.
thrives
to grow, develop, or be successful
茁壮成长；兴旺，繁荣