A group of fossils of elasmosaurs—some of the most famous in North America—have just been formally identified as belonging to a "very odd" new genus of the sea monster, unlike any previously known.
odd
strange or unexpected
奇怪的，古怪的；异常的；出人意料的

genus
a group of animals or plants, more closely related than a family, but less similar than a species
（动植物的）属

Long-necked and measuring in at 12 meters, Traskasaura sandrae—as it is officially named today in this new study—possessed heavy, sharp, robust teeth, ideal for crushing.
robust

Findings, published in the Journal of Systematic Paleontology, highlight Traskasaura as having a strange mix of primitive and derived traits unlike any other elasmosaur.
derived
得到，获得(obtain, get)
We can derive energy from various sources. (我们可以从各种来源获得能量。)
源自，出自(originate from, come from)：
Many English words derive from Latin. (许多英文字来源于拉丁语。)
衍生，派生(derive, develop)：
This new theory derives from previous research. 
提取，导出(extract, deduce)：
It is difficult to derive a precise conclusion from this data.

Its unique suite of adaptations enabled this plesiosaur to hunt prey from above. The findings suggest that the fierce marine reptile was perhaps one of the first plesiosaur taxa to do so.
marine
related to the sea or sea transport
海（洋）的;航海的;海运的

reptile
an animal that produces eggs and uses the heat of the sun to keep its blood warm
爬行动物

The 85-million-year-old fossils are not new to science, though, far from it.

The first (now known to be) Traskasaura fossil was discovered from Late Cretaceous rocks in 1988 along the Puntledge River on Vancouver Island. Since then, additional fossils have been recovered: an isolated right humerus and a well-preserved juvenile skeleton comprising thorax, girdles and limbs. All in all, three animals are part of the collection detailed in the new paper, all from the Haslam Formation of Vancouver Island.
skeleton
the frame of bones supporting a human or animal body
骨骼，骨架

comprise
to have things or people as parts or members; to consist of
包含;包括;构成，组成

comprising

First described in 2002, the fossils recently became famous, having been adopted by the Province of British Columbia and declared as the official fossil emblem of British Columbia (the Provincial Fossil of British Columbia). They are currently on public display at The Courtenay and District Museum and Paleontology Center, Courtenay, British Columbia.
declared

The designation as the Provincial Fossil of British Columbia followed a five-year appreciation effort by paleontology enthusiasts and a province-wide public poll in 2018, in which the elasmosaur received 48% of the vote.
enthusiasts

"Plesiosaur fossils have been known for decades in British Columbia," explains lead author Professor F. Robin O'Keefe from Marshall University, in West Virginia, U.S..

"However, the identity of the animal that left the fossils has remained a mystery, even as it was declared BC's provincial fossil in 2023. Our new research ... finally solves this mystery.

"The scientific confusion concerning this taxon is understandable. It has a very odd mix of primitive and derived traits. The shoulder, in particular, is unlike any other plesiosaur I have ever seen, and I have seen a few."
primitive
derived


Professor O'Keefe, who is an expert on marine reptiles from the age of dinosaurs, adds, "With the naming of Traskasaura sandrae, the Pacific Northwest finally has a Mesozoic reptile to call its own. Fittingly, a region known for its rich marine life today was host to strange and wonderful marine reptiles in the Age of Dinosaurs."

"The fossil record is full of surprises. It is always gratifying to discover something unexpected. When I first saw the fossils and realized they represented a new taxon, I thought it might be related to other plesiosaurs from the Antarctic. My Chilean colleague Rodrigo Otero thought differently, and he was right; Traskasaura is a strange, convergently evolved, fascinating beast."
gratifying
pleasing and satisfying
心满意足的
convergently
fascinating
extremely interesting
极有趣的;吸引人的

beast

In the initial 2002 description of the fossils, experts were reluctant to erect a new genus based solely on the adult skeleton of the elasmosaur discovered.
erect
to build a building, wall, or other structure
建立;建造
to raise something to a vertical position
竖立;使直立
in a position with your back and neck straight
（腰板）直的;昂首挺胸的

solely
only and not involving anyone or anything else
唯一地，单独地，仅有地



