# class discussion
## advantages
If you actively participant in the class, you will definitely concentrate better.
when students learn and share with each other's idea, they can learn things from different perspectives,which allows stduents to have a better understanding of subject matter.
If a class mainly involves lecturing, students may remember only 30%.
## disadvantages
If teachers don't manage the time well, discussions can take up too much time, leading to inefficiency.
if students haven't prepared well for the class, they may ask basic questions during the cause, and thus slow things down. As a result, other stduent may get bored and will not learn as much as they could.

# teacher traits
## approachable
If a teacher is approachable, then they are less scared to partcipate in the class, so of course it'll beneft their learning.
Humorous teachers are more likely to make the class more engaging. If students find the subject matter inteserting, they tend to be more actively involved in the learning process. Consequently, they'll get a good grade.


# open to community
## disavantage
University courses usally are diffcult. They require piror knowledge. If those people from the local communities are not equiped with the required knowledge. it'll be hard for them to catch up int the class, leading to inefficiency.
 
If they can't ask quesions during the class and don't have assignments after the class, they might not be able to better understand the subject matter well. As a result, they will not learn as much as the could.

