# online or offline book
## sentence
we have been deeply influenced by technological advancements. Now, let foucus on such an area where technology has made a great impact on the way we read.
technological advancement

They are often affordable than paper books, which is a big advantage, especially for stduents and me who are on a buget.

what's more, e-books often come with discount and special deals, so you can save moeny.
special deal:特价优惠
I love the feel of a paper book. There's something about fliping through physical pages that can't be replaced.

Furthermore, I find it easily to take note, higglight, and underline text in a paper book, which helps me remember the content better during my studies.

The search tool in e-books is super handy for finding exactly what you need, so, e-books are more covenient.
paper book vs e-book(electronic book)

Last time, I needed to find some reference to a particular concept with a lengthy textbook.
lengthy textbook:篇幅很长的教材


# board game
I prefer board games, Board games are quite enjoyable. especially when played with a group of people. While playing, I can chat with my friends. share laughter, and connect with one another. This enhances our finendship, as well. Futhermore, board games ofter a break from screens and technology, promoting face-to-face interaction and reducing screen time.



# online class or traditional class
I like traditional classes better because I can interface with classmates in person, and this interaction helps me build my social skills.
Fox example, during a recent history class, we had a lively debate about a history event. While engageing in this discussion. I learned how elaborate my opionions and also response to my peer's ideas with respect, helping me communicate effectively with others. 
Additionally, traditional classed are less distracting. I mean,  when I'm in a physical classroom, I'm less tempted to check my phone or lose foccus. So I can concentrate better on the lession.
distracting
tempt to

I'm incline to inline class. One significant reason is the time it saves. Commuting to physical classroom can be time-consuming and tiring. In contrast, with online clased, I can attend lecture from the comfort of my home, elimating the need to travel. What's more, the availity of recorded video lecturing allows me to review the class content at my own pace. This is helpful especially when I"m prepareing for the exams or revisiting complex topics. For instance, I recently re-watched a physic lecture on a challenging concept, I can pause the lecture and take notes. Plus, I can review it as many time as I need, as well. As a result, My exam performance has also improved.
time-consuming and tiring
Commute: 通勤
from the comfort of my home
at my own pace
revisit:重访（某地）
review it as many times as I need.

