

# field trip
## advantage
Fields, on the other hand, provide student with a chance to learn through hands-on experience and active engagement, which can deepen their understanding and increase their interest in the subject matter. These experiences can spark curiosity, encourage critical thinking, and make learning more enjoyable.

Field trips can create lasting memories and help students retain what they've learned for a long time. Experiences that engage our sense-things we can see, hear, touch, semll, or taste-are often remembered better than information learned solely in a classroom.

Field trips allow students to apply what they have learned in real-life situations. This helps them see how the concept and skills they acquire in school are important and useful in the world outside the classroom.

Visiting to place like museums or historical sites expose students to diverse clutures, histories, and perspectives. This can broaden their worldwide and foster empathy for the feelings and experiences of others.

## disadvantages
In the classroom, students have the opportunity to disscuss topic, ask question, and receive immediate feedback from teachers and peers. This interaction can enhance their learning and foster collaboration.
increase 
spark                 interest
stimulate  one's      curiosity
ignite                passion
arouse

It is generally easier to maintain safety and control in a classroom setting. While the outside enviroment can be more complex.
maintain = keep

In contrast, classroom teaching follows a structed curriculum designed to cover a wide range of subject and skills. Somem people believe that adhering to this program is the best way to ensure that students maximize their learning during the available time.

Field trip can be expensive and challenge to organize. Some school may have limited budgets and opt to allocate their funds toward classroom resources that benefit all students.




