# Sentences
Public officials are encouraging innovation in the energy sector to find more efficient and cleaner power solutions
Facing a decline in oil, the government is seeking to a diversify its income resources.
The lack of proper infrastructure in rural areas often limit access to quality healthcare and education.
The Biden adminstration has introduced new unemployment benefits to support those who lost their jobs.
The Propersity of a nation is often measured by it's citizen standard of living and access to basic facilities.
The legislators have passed laws to make public buildings more acessible to people with disabilities.
legislators:立法者
disabilities:残疾，缺陷，残障
The government's new sustainable development policy focuses on balancing economic growth with enviromental protection.

get/have access to
make more accessible to

# Socity and Government
Infrasture such as transporation is crucial for enconomic activities. They enable the movement of goods, services, and information. which is essential for trade, industrial growth and economic expansion.
support
transportaion
network
electricity

Local businesses provide jobs to a large number of people, contributing to reducing unployment rates and improving the standard of living.
social as a whole 
government have a growing revenue so it can invest in public infrastructure such as education that benefit all. There polices and measures can greatly imporve government image and enhance people's happiness well-bing. 
Also, individuals could have higer income, they could use those money to improve living standard and individual well-bing. For example, they moving to a relatively bigger house if there is  have more health food and have a trip, all those will significantly bring hapiness 
meet basic needs.
disposable incomes
have more money at one's disposal


The entertainment industry make billions of dollars annually, contributing significantly to a country's GDP. This includes revenus from movies, music, television, digital games and more.
wide audiences
a large number of users

A healthy workforce is vital for economic productivity. Thus, investing in healthcare infrastructure and making healthcare more accessible can contribute to economic prosperity.

In the long term, economic prosperity depends on substainability.Leaders need to consider the enviromental impact of economic activities and promoto substainable practices.
In the short term
In the long term

residential building
bloat:（使）膨胀；（使）臃肿
amenity: 生活福利设施，便利设施；娱乐消遣设施


# Writing Point
## Public
approval rating
public order and stablity（公共秩序与稳定）
boost the overall prosperity of the neighborhoods
## Ecconomic Growth
## Employment
## Influence & Image
## Technology
## Environment
## Inverstment
## well-bing
comfort zones
globalization

