# AI
## advantages
From my perspective, AI contributes positively to our socity. Unlike humans, machine have the potenial to work around the clock without a break, leading to continuous service or production.

It seems to me that AI has brought about negative differences in our socity. It is because AI systems often need enormous amount of data, which may lead to privacy issues.
issue = problem
privacy issues: names, addresses, preferences,school, daily routines, family members
sales calls(annoying),scam(欺诈，诈骗) emails


I think AI has made a positivie difference in our socity. It can analyze data and identify patterns to provide personalized information, enhancing user experiences in areas like entertainment.
pattern=interests and hobbies=routine=habits
movie genres(（尤指艺术的）风格，类型，体裁), television series, games

Personally, I consider AI as a positive force within society. The reason is that the AI industy has created many new job opportunities in areas like data analysis and prohramming.
## disadvantage
Personally, I regard AI as a harmful force within socity as automation could replace human jobs in certain fields, such as customer service. This may lead to an increase of unemplyment rate.
lead to
cause
result in
give rise to
I feel that AI brings about benefical chanes in society, This is because robots can be used in dangerous environments, protecing human lives and improving safety.
underwater tasks
mining
exploration（探索）
oil drilling
rescuring

I think AI has made a bad impact on society. This is mainly because AI and robots lack the ability to understand human emotions, which can lead to misunderstandings.
misunderstandings = disappointment = frustraion = worse situations

From my perspective, AI contributes negatively to our society because the setup cost of the AI system in the early stage can be high, which may create financial stress for some companies.
relieve financial burden
develop financial responsibility

# Play games is a waste of time
## physical health
eyesight
more sedentary（缺乏锻炼的，少活动的）
stay up late
## mental health
addication
age-inappropriate information(violent, foul(极其令人不快的；恶劣的) language)
isolated
## make friend
make bad friends
less face-to-face interaction with people around us
## academic performance
time-consuming
distracting
shorter attention span
## money
spend too much money