Narrator: Listen to part of a lecture in a biology class.

Professor: I'd like to talk to you today about a principle of evolutionary biology that was first proposed in the 19th century by an American scientist named Edward Cope.

Cope made a scientific examination of fossils and thought he noticed a pattern of increasing sizes within species.

He proposed a principle which is usually called Cope’s rule.

What Cope said was that evolution was directed towards larger size creatures, and that this can be seen in many, perhaps even in most fossil lineages.

Fossil lineages, we talked about that before, their chronological charts of fossils of a specific species charted over time.

These lineages allowed Cope to compare fossils of different ages, some millions of years older than others, and Cope notes a tendency toward increasing size.

Now there are some obvious advantages to being bigger even within the same species, like being bigger can be a deterrent to predators.

So, you're less likely to be eaten, more likely to survive if you happen to be bigger.
In certain species, bigger animals are more fuel efficient.

They need less food per pound to keep themselves going.

Although of course they need more food overall, because they're bigger.

It's the same thing with marine animals in order to maintain body heat, larger whales need less food per pound than smaller whales.

Also in most species, larger females tend to produce more eggs increasing their chances of passing on their genes.

Ok, so, these are all good reasons why there might be an evolutionary vantage towards larger size.

And Cope's rule was not really questioned much.

It just seemed obvious that such a thing had to be true.

And fossil lineages seem to confirm it.

However, in the 1970s and 80s, there was a pretty serious Challenge to Cope rule, mounted primarily by the famous scientist Stephen Jay Gould, who promoted an alternative theory which subsequently gained widespread acceptance by biologists.

Gould thought of evolution as a much more random process than many previous scientists thought.

He was very much set against theory suggesting that evolution tends to drive in a certain direction, tends to direct towards certain ends.

Gould felt that such theories like Cope rule are influenced more by the psychology of the scientist.

You know, what's on that scientist’s mind, than the actual science and facts regarding the subject.

Uh people assumed that bigger had to be better.

They tended to look at these fossils that the way Cope did.

But you know there's a very strong danger of ignoring the evidence of this contrary to your thesis.

And often, we don't even realize we're doing it.

Gould was trouble because Cope did things like he compared the sizes of fossils with others that might be 10 million years older.

Gould felt that's, well, it could be a misleading comparison.

And also, the fossil record is not Complete.

There are all kinds of gaps and you can interpret the gaps in different ways.

And Gould, for these reasons, he believed that Cope rule might have been not a rule at all, just a human invention.

Cope found what he needed in order to support his theory.

But he didn't really prove it.

And Gould suggested another rather interesting possibility.

He claimed, and there's a certain amount of foundation to this, that when a natural disaster wipes out large numbers of individuals in a species, they often tend to wipe out the bigger individuals more quickly.

Let's say it gets really cold.

Your food supply is cut off, the smaller creatures which don't need as much food as the larger creatures with smaller creatures may find it easier to survive.

So, what Gould suggested is that after a natural disaster, evolution, which is random, might not look random.

It might look directed, because in effect, there's nowhere to go, but up when only the smallest of a species survive, animals were going to have to get bigger after a disaster, no matter what.

So, the growing bigger is merely a tendency, not an evolutionary advantage, it's not evolution directing towards larger sizes.

Now there have been other challenges to Cope's rule like why then are there still so many small animals on earth?

One reason is simple physics.

You won't see an insect as large as an elephant, because the insect’s exoskeleton simply can't support the weight.

wipes out：完全摧毁
exoskeleton：外骨骼
orientation
mounted：