Narrator: Listen to part of a lecture in an art history class.

Professor:I wanna return to a discussion we just started last time, about how painters are able to show details in any kind of life from near total darkness to very bright sunlight.

Professor:It's easy to take this ability for granted, but if you've ever tried painting, you know this is a real challenge.

Professor:Painters are trying to do something that the human eye does much more efficiently.

Professor:Scientists have a term for our ability to see details in all kinds of light.

Professor:They call it our perceptual dynamic range.
perceptual
Professor:Dynamic range is expressed as a ratio.

Professor:It's the number of different, distinct levels that our eyes were able to perceive between the extremes, of dark, and light.

Professor:Now,in our everyday world, it's normal for that range to exceed 50,000 to 1.

Professor:But when an artist tries to recreate that range using paint and canvas, well, those materials aren't capable of producing a range of more than about 300 to 1, uh Susan?

Student:But that El Greco painting we were looking at last time that seemed to have a lot of I it had shadows in sunlight.

Student:The range looked pretty wide to me.

Professor:That's because El Greco use some painting tricks to make you think you were seeing a greater dynamic range.

Professor:Remember, the very intense colors, he used uh, they were strong, but they were also opposites, like the red and the blue clothing on the people.

Professor:Those contrasting colors made certain details seem much clearer.

Professor:Do you remember anything else about that painting?

Student:There were those white lines he used to outline some different parts of the background, that made those trees really stand out in the dark forest, right?

Professor:Right,artists often use heavy, white, or black lines around the edges of a detail to make it pop out. In fact, let's look uh, David?

Student:I'm sorry, but I was just wondering about photography.

Student:I'm guessing that photographs can show a greater range uh, a greater dynamic range than paintings. Right?

Professor:I'm glad you asked that.

Professor:I borrowed some pictures from Doctor Henson photography class to show you.

Professor:But first, to answer your question, surprisingly, the dynamic range in a lot of traditional photography isn't much greater, because of the film and paper that's used.

Professor:So, photographers develop techniques to make details stand out just like paint herself.

Professor:Take Ansel Adams, I know you've all seen his photographs.

Professor:Well, he developed a system in 1941. He called it the zone system.

Professor:Imagine a scale from pure black to pure white.

Professor:Adams divided that scale.

Professor:The whole range of light intensity is into ten equal zones, and this scale with its ten zones is like a visual ruler that photographers can use to measure tonal ranges in a consistent way.

Professor:And because of its consistency, Adam’s system was widely adopted and used until the 1989s.

Professor:Of course health photographers used, it is a little complicated.

Professor:I think I'll leave that explanation for Doctor Henson class.

Student:Does the system only work for black and white film?

Professor:No. Adams use black and white, but the system works just fine with color.

Professor:Here's something else that may surprise you, though.

Professor:You think that adding color would help make details clear in a picture, but it's just the opposite.

Professor:You really lose a lot of details at both the dark and light ends of the range.

Professor:Or at least that was true until HDR photography came along. HDR stands for high dynamic range.

Professor: High, means that there's a greater level of detail visible over the whole range.

Professor: With HDR photographers are taking advantage of the capabilities of digital cameras and computer software to overcome some of the inherent limitations of traditional equipment.

Professor: Let's take a look at one example.

Professor: Here you've got three pictures.

Professor: All of the same scene that first picture up there on the left is dark, under exposed.

Professor: You can see details in the snow pretty well and the clouds in the sky.

Professor: But there's not enough light to see much of anything in the darker areas.

Professor: The second picture is a medium exposure, which captures the middle tones.

Professor: And the third picture is over exposed.

Professor: It let in so much light that you can see some details in the shadowy areas, but the snow, the sky, they're pretty much washed out.

Professor: What if you combine the photos though, used computer HDR software to blend details from all of the photos into one picture like this.

Student:Wow, that's really neat.

Student:Yeah, if only I could have been using that technique.

Student:To think of all the photographs I've taken that might have ended up upon the wall instead of in the trash can.