Friends,  in  some  ways,  determine  what  kind  of  life  we  live  and  thus  we  choose  them  carefully. Since  friends  have  different  types,  people  naturally  try  to  distinguish  good  ones  from  the  bad. Some people claim that it offers more advantages to make friends with people who can have fun with them than with people who can help them when they are in need. However, my attitude is just  the  opposite  of  such  statement.  I  believe  that  no  one  is  more  important  and  valuable  than those who can help.    
Making  friends  with  people  who  can  have  fun  with  us  is  not  always  necessary  or  beneficial. Having  fun  is  indeed  an  indispensable  part  of  life,  yet  we  do  not  always  need  friends  to  do  so. When  the  timing  is  right,  we  can  have  fun  with  anyone  without  making  friends  with  them.  It  is just like that we dance with strangers on a square when celebrating the national day, or that we have  an  interesting  chat  with  the  driver  while  taking  a  taxi.  Such  things  happen  frequently,  but these people do not necessarily become our friends. What is more, even if such people become our friends, they would not act as important ones if the only thing we do together is having fun. Staying  with  fun  friends  too  much  can  easily  distract  our  attention  from  things  that  we  are supposed to focus on, which means a waste of time and letting opportunities slip. People with so many tasks to deal with every day seldom need or think of their fun friends.
fun friend is not necessary, have func is not indispensable, we can have with strangers, example1
disadvantage of fun frend, district our attention and opportunities slip

timing
the time when something happens
（某事发生的）时间，时机

indeed
really or certainly, often used to emphasize something
的确，实在

indispensable
Something or someone that is indispensable is so good or important that you could not manage without it, him, or her.
必不可少的，必需的

On the contrary, friends who can help us when we are in need not only benefit our life but even change it in an unexpected positive way. Getting support from others always brings us a sense of security and makes us feel safe no matter what difficulty we encounter. Making friends with such people  means  comfort,  protection,  and  sometimes,  even  privileges.  That  is  why  many  of  us consider  making  some  local  friends  the  most  urgent  mission  that  we  need  to  accomplish  after moving  to  a new  city  or  a new  country. In  addition, some  people  not  only  help us when we  ask for  assistance  but  even  remind  us  of  what  we  need  or  lack  without  being  required  to.  These people can be our saviors as well as mentors, for they can even prevent us from being too proud of  ourselves  and  making  terrible  mistakes.  To  me,  my  parents  are  such  kind  of  friends  and  they give  me  advice  even  if  they  know  that  I  may  not  like  it.  Thanks  to  them,  I  have  achieved accomplishments better than most people expected.
advantage of import friend，
make us feel more safe
means comfort, protection, privileges, example1.
offer help without required, example2
saviors
a person who saves someone from danger or harm
救助者；拯救者；救星

mentors
a person who gives a younger or less experienced person help and advice over a period of time, especially at work or school
导师，指导者

Friends  might  be  the  most  influential people  in  our  lives. They  are  like  teachers,  supporters  and reminders. Although we  can  also  have fun with them, we  still  know  quite  clearly  that  this  is  not why we value them so much. (Written by Zirui Wang) 
