Robinson  Crusoe  is  only  a  dream  hero  existing  in people's fancy  world  of  imagination.  As social  beings, humans can never do without the help and support from others. Isolation is the strongest enemy in one's career life. It has been widely acknowledged that relating well to others paves the way for people to achieve professional success. However, that does not mean what has been learned in class is not worthwhile. In my opinion, building good relationship with others is as important as studying hard at school.
social beings
human beings
pave
to cover an area of ground with a hard, flat surface of pieces of stone, concrete, or bricks
铺，筑（地面）

pave the way for
make it easier or possible for something to happen or for someone to do something

Above  all,  knowledge  is  power,  just  as Thomas Jefferson  once  expressed.  To  some  extent,  the  essences contained  within  all  school  subjects  simply resemble the concrete frames of architecture. Without them, the building would soon collapse. In order to achieve success in one's future career life, it is imperative for students to study hard at school. Therefore, there is no excuse for any student to shun the most fundamental task of studying. The "No pains, no gains" concept should be deeply rooted in the mind. Diligence is the premise of a bright future. In this regard, we  may  refer  to Madam  Curie,  a  Polish  physicist  and chemist famous for her pioneering research on radioactivity. She studied hard at school and earned her higher degrees. The subsequent scientific research made her the first person honored  with  two  Nobel  Prizes—in  physics  and  in chemistry.  She  was  the  first  female  professor  at  the University  of  Paris.  Evidently,  these  unprecedented achievements owed much to Madame Curie's untiring efforts at school.
essences
the basic or most important idea or quality of something
本质；实质；要素
a strong liquid, usually from a plant or flower, that is used to add a flavour or smell to something
（通常取自植物或花的）香精，香料，精油

resemble
to look like or be like someone or something
像；看起来像；与…相似

concrete
a very hard building material made by mixing together cement, sand, small stones, and water
混凝土
to cover something in concrete
用混凝土覆盖
clear and certain, or real and existing in a form that can be seen or felt
确定的，确实的；具体的，有形的，实在的

frame
a border that surrounds and supports a picture, door, or window
（图画、门、窗的）框，框架
the basic structure of a building, vehicle, or piece of furniture that other parts are added onto
（建筑物、车辆或家具的）构架，支架，骨架
the size and shape of someone's body
体格;骨架

imperative
extremely important or urgent
极重要的；紧急的；迫切的
used to describe the form of a verb that is usually used for giving orders
祈使语气

shun
to avoid something
避开，避免
to ignore someone and not speak to that person because you cannot accept their behaviour, beliefs, etc.
躲避，回避

Diligence
the quality of working carefully and with a lot of effort
勤奋，认真

premise
an idea or theory on which a statement or action is based
（作为先决条件的）假定，前提

pioneer
to be one of the first people to do something
做先锋，当开拓者，倡导

pioneering
using ideas and methods that have never been used before
先驱性的，开创性的

unprecedented
never having happened or existed in the past
史无前例的，空前的;绝无仅有的

precedent
an action, situation, or decision that has already happened and can be used as a reason why a similar action or decision should be performed or made
先例，前例

own.. to

untiring
If someone has untiring energy, interest, or enthusiasm, their energy, interest, or enthusiasm never becomes weaker.
不知疲倦的；坚持不懈的；永不减弱的

Secondly, the modern world values teamwork, which is a  key  to  career  success.  Only  through interactions  with partners can one master the art of cooperation. This vividly demonstrates the significance of relating well to others. At school, there are many projects or group work assigned to students. The participation in any project requires the united efforts of all group members. During the course of a group task,  each  individual  has  to  work  together  with  their partners. Bearing in mind their common goal, all members are  devoted  to  their assigned  part  of  the  task.  Just  like different components of an engine, everyone is interrelated. If a single part refuses to function, the whole engine may suddenly stop or even break down. It is  such  a dramatic effect that depicts the value of working harmoniously and resolving any conflicts.
unify -> unity -> united
united
Bearing in mind
to remember or consider something, often something important or relevant to a current situation

interrelated

harmony
a pleasant musical sound made by different notes being played or sung at the same time
（音乐中的）和声
a situation in which people are peaceful and agree with each other, or when things seem right or suitable together
协调，和谐，一致

harmoniously
in a friendly and peaceful way
友好地;和谐地
in a way that has a pleasant tune or harmony
悦耳地，和谐地

Nevertheless,  even  though  we  have ascertained  the value  of  diligence  at  school  and  also testified  to  the importance of building good relationships with others, there is still one point that must be especially emphasized. To illustrate, it is not wise to become bookworms and spend all one's school time reading textbooks. By no means could one succeed if he or she is only good at reciting theories and cannot put what has been learned into practice. Therefore, a practical  study  plan  ought  to  be  made.  After  all,  every student is entitled to spend some time with their friends. To  sum  up,  working  diligently  at  school  is  a fundamental task on the part of students. On the other hand, learning  how  to  relate  well  to  others  before  entering employment  is  also  important.  Every  single  day  spent on campus ought to be made full use of, as this crucial period in life  definitely constitutes  a  stepping  stone  to  a  brighter future.
ascertained
to discover something
弄清，确定，查明
to make certain of something
确信

worm
a small animal with a long, narrow, soft body without arms, legs, or bones
蠕虫
the young of particular types of insect
（某些昆虫的）幼虫
a type of worm that lives in an animal's intestine, feeding on the food there, or on an animal's body, feeding off its blood
寄生虫
an unpleasant person who does not deserve respect
惹人讨厌的人；懦夫
to succeed in moving along in a difficult or crowded situation, by moving your body slowly and carefully
挤过，钻过

bookworms
a person who reads a lot
书虫；书迷

by no means
否定性句子位于句首，需要部分倒装

sum up
to describe or express the important facts or characteristics about something or someone
总结，概述，概括
An action or object that sums something or someone up represents the most typical qualities of that person or thing.
代表，体现
When a judge sums up towards the end of a trial, he or she makes a speech to the jury telling them again of the main matters they should consider in the case.
（审理结束前法官向陪审团）作案件总结，作结案陈词

enter employment
就业

stepping stone
one of a row of large, flat stones on which you can walk in order to cross a stream or river that is not deep
（溪流或河流中的）踏脚石，垫脚石
an event or experience that helps you achieve something else
进身之阶;敲门砖，垫脚石，跳板